Secure a Decisive Victory in Building a Moderately ProsperousSociety in All Respects and Strive for the Great Success of
Socialism with Chinese Characteristics for a NewEraDelivered at the 19th National Congress of the Communist Party of ChinaOctober 18, 2017
Xi Jinping
Comrades, On behalf of the 18th Central Committee of the Communist Party of China, Iwill now deliver a report to the 19th National Congress. The 19th National Congress of the Communist Party of China is a meetingofgreat importance taking place during the decisive stage in building a moderatelyprosperous society in all respects and at a critical moment as socialismwithChinese characteristics has entered a new era. The theme of the Congress is: Remain true to our original aspirationandkeepour mission firmly in mind, hold high the banner of socialismwithChinesecharacteristics, secure a decisive victory in building a moderately prosperoussociety in all respects, strive for the great success of socialismwithChinesecharacteristics for a new era, and work tirelessly to realize the Chinese Dreamofnational rejuvenation. Never forget why you started, and you can accomplish your mission. Theoriginal aspiration and the mission of Chinese Communists is to seek happinessforthe Chinese people and rejuvenation for the Chinese nation. This original
aspiration, this mission, is what inspires Chinese Communists to advance. InourParty, each and every one of us must always breathe the same breath as the people, share the same future, and stay truly connected to them. The aspirations of thepeople to live a better life must always be the focus of our efforts. We must keeponstriving with endless energy toward the great goal of national rejuvenation. Both China and the world are in the midst of profound and complex changes. China is still in an important period of strategic opportunity for development; theprospects are bright but the challenges are severe. All comrades must aimhighandlook far, be alert to dangers even in times of calm, have the courage topursue
1
reform and break new ground, and never become hardened to change or inactive. We will unite the Chinese people of all ethnic groups and lead themto a decisivevictory in building a moderately prosperous society in all respects and inthedriveto secure the success of socialism with Chinese characteristics for a newera. I. The Past Five Years: Our Work and Historic Change
The five years since the 18th National Congress have been a truly remarkablefive years in the course of the development of the Party and the country. OutsideChina, we have been confronted with sluggish global economic recovery, frequentoutbreaks of regional conflicts and disturbances, and intensifying global issues. Athome, we have encountered profound changes as China has entered a newnormal
in economic development. We have upheld the underlying principle of pursuingprogress while ensuring stability, risen to challenges, pioneered and pushedahead, and made historic achievements in reform, opening up, andsocialist
modernization. To put the guiding principles from our 18th National Congress into action, theParty Central Committee has held seven plenary sessions. There, decisions andplans were made on issues of major importance, from reforming the institutionsand transforming the functions of government to deepening reforminall areas, advancing law-based governance, formulating the 13th Five-Year Plan, andseeinggovernance over the Party is exercised fully and with rigor. In the past fiveyears, we have implemented the five-sphere integrated plan
1 and the four-prongedcomprehensive strategy,2 fulfilled the goals of the 12th Five-Year Plan, andmadesmooth progress in implementing the 13th Five-Year Plan. On all fronts newadvances have been made for the cause of the Party and the country.  We have made major achievements in economic development. We have remained committed to the new development philosophy, adoptedthe right approach to development, and endeavored to transformthe growthmodel. The result has been a constant improvement in the quality andeffect ofdevelopment. The economy has maintained a medium-high growth rate, making1 The five-sphere integrated plan is to promote coordinated economic, political, cultural, social, andecological advancement. 2 The four-pronged comprehensive strategy is to make comprehensive moves to finish buildingamoderately prosperous society in all respects, deepen reform, advance law-based governance, and strengthenParty self-governance.
2
China a leader among the major economies. With the gross domestic product
rising from 54 trillion to 80 trillion yuan, China has maintained its positionastheworld’s second largest economy and contributed more than 30 percent of global
economic growth. Supply-side structural reform has made further headway, bringing a steady improvement in the economic structure. Emerging industrieslikethe digital economy are thriving; the construction of high-speedrailways, highways, bridges, ports, airports, and other types of infrastructure has pickeduppace. Agricultural modernization has steadily advanced, with annual grainproduction reaching 600 million metric tons. The level of urbanization has risenbyan annual average of 1.2 percentage points, and more than 80 million peoplewhohave moved from rural to urban areas have gained permanent urban residency. Regional development has become more balanced; the Belt and RoadInitiative,1
the coordinated development of the Beijing-Tianjin-Hebei region, andthedevelopment of the Yangtze Economic Belt have all made notable progress. Through devoting great energy to implementing the innovation-drivendevelopment strategy, we have seen much accomplished toward makingChinaacountry of innovators, with major advances made in science and technology, including the successful launch of Tiangong-2 space lab, the commissioningof thedeep-sea manned submersible Jiaolong and of the five-hundred-meter aperturespherical telescope (FAST) Tianyan, the launch of the dark matter probe satelliteWukong and the quantum science satellite Mozi, and the test flight of the airlinerC919. Construction on islands and reefs in the South China Sea has seensteadyprogress. The new institutions of the open economy have been steadily improved. China now leads the world in trade, outbound investment, and foreignexchangereserves.  We have made major breakthroughs in deepening reform. We have taken comprehensive steps to deepen reform swiftly but steadily, andworked with resolve to remove institutional barriers in all areas. We havetakenmoves across the board, achieved breakthroughs in many areas, and made furtherprogress in reform. We have pursued reform in a more systematic, holistic, andcoordinated way, increasing its coverage and depth. Thanks to the launchof over1,500 reform measures, breakthroughs have been made in key areas, andgeneral
frameworks for reform have been established in major fields. The systemofsocialism with Chinese characteristics has been further improved, withnotable1 This refers to the Silk Road Economic Belt and 21st Century Maritime Silk Road Initiative.
3
progress made in modernizing China’s system and capacity for governance. Throughout society, development is full of vitality and is driven bygreatercreativity.  We have taken major steps in developing democracy and the rule of law. We have actively developed socialist democracy and advancedlaw-basedgovernance. We have stepped up institution building across the boardtomakeintegrated advances in Party leadership, the running of the country by the people, and law-based governance; and we have continuously improved the institutionsand mechanisms by which the Party exercises leadership. Steady progress has beenmade in enhancing socialist democracy; intraparty democracy has been expanded, and socialist consultative democracy is flourishing. The patriotic unitedfront hasbeen consolidated and developed, and new approaches have been adoptedforwork related to ethnic and religious affairs. Further progress has beenmadeinensuring our legislation is sound, law enforcement is strict, the administrationofjustice is impartial, and the law is observed by everyone. Our efforts tobuildacountry, government, and society based on the rule of lawhave beenmutuallyreinforcing; the system of distinctively Chinese socialist rule of lawhas beensteadily improved; and public awareness of the rule of lawhas risen markedly. Good progress has been made in piloting the reform of the national supervisionsystem, and effective measures have been taken to reformthe systemofgovernment administration and the judicial system, and to develop systemstoapply checks and oversight over the exercise of power.  We have made significant advances on the theoretical and cultural fronts. We have strengthened Party leadership over ideological work andexplorednew ground in advancing Party related theories. The importance of Marxismasaguiding ideology is better appreciated. Socialism with Chinese characteristics andthe Chinese Dream have been embraced by our people. Core socialist values andfine traditional Chinese culture are alive in the people’s hearts. Initiativestoimprove public etiquette and ethical standards have proved successful. Publiccultural services have been improved; art and literature are thriving, andcultural
programs and industries are going strong. The development, administration, andfunctioning of internet services have been enhanced. Fitness-for-All programs andcompetitive sports have seen extensive development. Our country’s underlyingvalues hold greater appeal than ever before, and the wave of positive energyfeltthroughout society is building. We, the Chinese people, have greater confidencein
4
our own culture. China’s cultural soft power and the international influenceofChinese culture have increased significantly. There is greater unity inthinkingboth within the Party and throughout society.  We have steadily improved living standards. Our vision of making development people-centered has been acted on, awholeraft of initiatives to benefit the people has seen implementation, and the people’ssense of fulfillment has grown stronger. Decisive progress has been made inthefight against poverty: more than 60 million people have been lifted out of poverty, and the poverty headcount ratio has dropped from 10.2 percent to less than4percent. All-round progress has been made in the development of education, withremarkable advances made in the central and western regions and in rural areas. Employment has registered steady growth, with an average of over 13 millionurban jobs created each year. Growth of urban and rural personal incomes hasoutpaced economic growth, and the middle-income group has been expanding. Asocial security system covering both urban and rural residents has takenshape;
both public health and medical services have improved markedly. Solidprogresshas been made in building government-subsidized housing projects to ensurebasicneeds are met. Social governance systems have been improved; lawandorder hasbeen maintained; and national security has been fully enhanced.  We have made notable progress in building an ecological civilization. We have devoted serious energy to ecological conservation. As a result, theentire Party and the whole country have become more purposeful andactiveinpursuing green development, and there has been a clear shift away fromthetendency to neglect ecological and environmental protection. Efforts to developasystem for building an ecological civilization have been accelerated; the systemoffunctional zoning has been steadily improved; and progress has beenmadeinpiloting the national park system. Across-the-board efforts to conserve resourceshave seen encouraging progress; the intensity of energy and resource consumptionhas been significantly reduced. Smooth progress has been made in major ecological
conservation and restoration projects; and forest coverage has been increased. Ecological and environmental governance has been significantly strengthened, leading to marked improvements in the environment. Taking a drivingseat ininternational cooperation to respond to climate change, China has becomeanimportant participant, contributor, and torchbearer in the global endeavor forecological civilization.
5
 We have initiated a new stage in strengthening and revitalizing the armed forces. With a view to realizing the Chinese Dream and the dreamof buildingapowerful military, we have developed a strategy for the military under newcircumstances, and have made every effort to modernize national defense andthearmed forces. We convened the Gutian military political work meeting toreviveand pass on the proud traditions and fine conduct of our Party andour armedforces, and have seen a strong improvement in the political ecosystemof thepeople’s forces. Historic breakthroughs have been made in reformingnational
defense and the armed forces: a new military structure has been establishedwiththe Central Military Commission exercising overall leadership, the theatercommands responsible for military operations, and the services focusingondeveloping capabilities. This represents a revolutionary restructuringof theorganization and the services of the people’s armed forces. We have strengthenedmilitary training and war preparedness, and undertaken major missions relatedtothe protection of maritime rights, countering terrorism, maintaining stability, disaster rescue and relief, international peacekeeping, escort services in the Gulf ofAden, and humanitarian assistance. We have stepped up weapons andequipment
development, and made major progress in enhancing military preparedness. Thepeople’s armed forces have taken solid strides on the path of building a powerful
military with Chinese characteristics.  We have made fresh progress in work related to Hong Kong, Macao, and Taiwan. We have fully and faithfully implemented the principle of “one country, twosystems,” and ensured that the central government exercises its overall jurisdictionover Hong Kong and Macao as mandated by China’s Constitution andthebasiclaws of the two special administrative regions. We have thus boostedexchangesand cooperation between the mainland and the two regions and maintainedprosperity and stability in Hong Kong and Macao. We have upheld the one-Chinaprinciple and the 1992 Consensus, promoted the peaceful development ofcross-Straits relations, strengthened cross-Straits economic and cultural exchangesand cooperation, and held a historic meeting between the leaders of the twosides. We have responded as appropriate to the political developments inTaiwan, resolutely opposed and deterred separatist elements advocating “Taiwanindependence,” and vigorously safeguarded peace and stability in the TaiwanStraits.  We have made further progress in China’s diplomacy on all fronts.
6
We have made all-round efforts in the pursuit of major country diplomacywith Chinese characteristics, thus advancing China’s diplomatic agendainacomprehensive, multilevel, multifaceted way and creating a favorable external
environment for China’s development. We have jointly pursued the Belt andRoadInitiative, initiated the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank, set up the SilkRoadFund, and hosted the First Belt and Road Forum for International Cooperation, the22nd APEC Economic Leaders’ Meeting, the G20 2016 Summit in Hangzhou, theBRICS Summit in Xiamen, and the Fourth Summit of the Conference on Interactionand Confidence Building Measures in Asia. China champions the development of acommunity with a shared future for mankind, and has encouraged the evolutionofthe global governance system. With this we have seen a further rise inChina’sinternational influence, ability to inspire, and power to shape; and China has madegreat new contributions to global peace and development.  We have achieved remarkable outcomes in ensuring full and strict governance overthe Party. We have made sweeping efforts to strengthen Party leadershipandPartybuilding, and taken strong action to transform lax and weak governance over theParty. We encourage all Party members to hold the Party Constitutioningreatesteem. We urge them to strengthen their consciousness of the need to maintainpolitical integrity, think in big-picture terms, follow the leadership core, andkeepin alignment, and to uphold the authority of the Central Committee anditscentralized, unified leadership. We have tightened political discipline andrulestoensure that political responsibility for governance over the Party is fulfilledat eachlevel of the Party organization. We have committed to “examining ourselves in the mirror, tidying our attire, taking a bath, and treating our ailments,” launched activities to see memberscommand and act on the Party’s mass line, and initiated a campaignfor theobservance of the Three Stricts and Three Earnests.1 We have regularizedandinstitutionalized the requirement for all Party members to have asolidunderstanding of the Party Constitution, Party regulations, and relatedmajorpolicy addresses and to meet Party standards. As a result, the ideals andconvictions of all Party members have been strengthened and their sense of Partyconsciousness has deepened. We have adopted standards fitting for a neweratoassess the caliber of officials, and achieved a notable improvement intheway1 The Three Stricts and Three Earnests are: to be strict with oneself in practicing self-cultivation, usingpower, and exercising self-discipline; and to be earnest in one’s thinking, work, and behavior.
7
officials are selected and appointed. Further advances have been made inthereform of the institutional framework for Party building, and continuousimprovements have been made to the system of Party regulations. We have given top priority to ensuring compliance with Party discipline, andtackled the prominent problems that prompt the strongest public reactionandthatthreaten to erode the very foundation of the Party’s governance. We adoptedtheeight-point decision on improving Party and government conduct, have takentough action against the practice of formalities for formalities’ sake, bureaucratism, hedonism, and extravagance, and have staunchly opposed privilege seeking. Disciplinary inspections have cut like a blade through corruption and misconduct;
they have covered every Party committee in all departments at the central andprovincial levels. No place has been out of bounds, no ground left unturned, andno tolerance shown in the fight against corruption. We have taken firmactionto“take out tigers,” “swat flies,” and “hunt down foxes.” The goal of creatingadeterrent against corruption has been initially attained; the cage of institutions thatprevents corruption has been strengthened; and moral defenses against corruptionare in the making. The anti-corruption campaign has built into a crushingtide, andis being consolidated and developed. The achievements of the past five years have touched every area andbrokennew ground; the changes in China over the past five years have been profoundandfundamental. For five years, our Party has demonstrated tremendous political
courage and a powerful sense of mission as it has developed newideas, newthinking, and new strategies, adopted a raft of major principles andpolicies, launched a host of major initiatives, and pushed ahead with many major tasks. Wehave solved many tough problems that were long on the agenda but neverresolved, and accomplished many things that were wanted but never got done. With this, we have prompted historic shifts in the cause of the Partyandthecountry. These historic changes will have a powerful and far-reaching effect onthedevelopment of this cause. Over the past five years, we have acted with courage to confront major risksand tests facing the Party and to address prominent problems withinthePartyitself. With firm resolve, we have tightened discipline and improved Partyconduct, fought corruption and punished wrongdoing, and removed serious potential
dangers in the Party and the country. As a result, both the intrapartypolitical
atmosphere and the political ecosystem of the Party have improved markedly. TheParty’s ability to innovate, power to unite, and energy to fight have all been
8
significantly strengthened; Party solidarity and unity have been reinforced, andour engagement with the people has been greatly improved. Revolutionarytempering has made our Party stronger and it now radiates with great vitality. With this, efforts to develop the cause of the Party and the country have gainedastrong political underpinning. But we must be very clear: There are still many inadequacies in our workandmany difficulties and challenges to face. The main ones are as follows. Some acute problems caused by unbalanced and inadequate development
await solutions; and the quality and effect of development are not what theyshould be. China’s ability to innovate needs to be stronger, the real economyawaits improvement, and we have a long way to go in protecting the environment. In work on public wellbeing there are still many areas where we fall short; andpoverty alleviation remains a formidable task. There are still large disparitiesindevelopment between rural and urban areas, between regions, andinincomedistribution; and our people face many difficulties in employment, education, healthcare, housing, and elderly care. The level of civic-mindedness needs further improvement. Social tensions andproblems are intertwined, much remains to be done in seeing the country’sgovernance is based in law, and China’s system and capacity for governanceneedto be further strengthened. Ideological struggle is still complicated, andinnational
security we face new developments. Some reform plans and major policies andmeasures need to be better implemented. Many dimensions of Partybuildingremain weak. These are all problems that demand our full attention to resolve. The achievements of the past five years are the result of the strong leadershipof the Party Central Committee, and, more importantly, the result of all Partymembers and all the Chinese people pulling together in their pursuit. Onbehalf ofthe Central Committee of the Communist Party of China, I express our heartfeltthanks to the people of all ethnic groups, to all other political parties, topeople’sorganizations, and patriotic figures from all sectors of society, to our fellowcountrymen and women in the Hong Kong and Macao special administrativeregions and in Taiwan, to overseas Chinese, and to all our friends fromaroundtheworld who have shown understanding and support for China’s modernization. Comrades, In the early days of reform and opening up, the Party made a clarioncall forusto take a path of our own and build socialism with Chinese characteristics. Since
9
that time, the Party has united and led all the Chinese people in a tireless struggle, propelling China into a leading position in terms of economic and technological
strength, defense capabilities, and composite national strength. China’sinternational standing has risen as never before. Our Party, our country, ourpeople, our forces, and our nation have changed in ways without precedent. TheChinese nation, with an entirely new posture, now stands tall and firminthe East. With decades of hard work, socialism with Chinese characteristics has crossedthe threshold into a new era. This is a new historic juncture inChina’sdevelopment. This is what socialism with Chinese characteristics entering a newera means:
The Chinese nation, which since modern times began had endured so muchforso long, has achieved a tremendous transformation: it has stood up, grownrich, and is becoming strong; it has come to embrace the brilliant prospectsofrejuvenation. It means that scientific socialism is full of vitality in 21st centuryChina, and that the banner of socialism with Chinese characteristics is nowflyinghigh and proud for all to see. It means that the path, the theory, the system, andtheculture of socialism with Chinese characteristics have kept developing, blazinganew trail for other developing countries to achieve modernization. It offers anewoption for other countries and nations who want to speed up their development
while preserving their independence; and it offers Chinese wisdomanda Chineseapproach to solving the problems facing mankind. This new era will be an era of building on past successes to further advanceour cause, and of continuing in a new historical context to strive for the successofsocialism with Chinese characteristics. It will be an era of securing a decisivevictory in building a moderately prosperous society in all respects, andof movingon to all-out efforts to build a great modern socialist country. It will be aneraforthe Chinese people of all ethnic groups to work together and work hardtocreateabetter life for themselves and ultimately achieve common prosperity for everyone. It will be an era for all of us, the sons and daughters of the Chinese nation, tostrivewith one heart to realize the Chinese Dream of national rejuvenation. It will beanera that sees China moving closer to center stage and making greater contributionsto mankind. As socialism with Chinese characteristics has entered a newera, the principal
contradiction facing Chinese society has evolved. What we nowface is thecontradiction between unbalanced and inadequate development and the people’s
10
ever-growing needs for a better life. China has seen the basic needs of over abillionpeople met, has basically made it possible for people to live decent lives, andwill
soon bring the building of a moderately prosperous society to a successful
completion. The needs to be met for the people to live better lives are increasinglybroad. Not only have their material and cultural needs grown; their demandsfordemocracy, rule of law, fairness and justice, security, and a better environment areincreasing. At the same time, China’s overall productive forces have significantlyimproved and in many areas our production capacity leads the world. Themoreprominent problem is that our development is unbalanced and inadequate. Thishas become the main constraining factor in meeting the people’s increasingneedsfor a better life. We must recognize that the evolution of the principal contradictionfacingChinese society represents a historic shift that affects the whole landscape andthatcreates many new demands for the work of the Party and the country. Buildingoncontinued efforts to sustain development, we must devote great energytoaddressing development’s imbalances and inadequacies, and pushhardtoimprove the quality and effect of development. With this, we will be better placedto meet the ever-growing economic, political, cultural, social, and ecological needsof our people, and to promote well-rounded human development andall-roundsocial progress. We must recognize that the evolution of the principal contradictionfacingChinese society does not change our assessment of the present stage of socialisminChina. The basic dimension of the Chinese context—that our country is still andwill long remain in the primary stage of socialism—has not changed. China’sinternational status as the world’s largest developing country has not changed. Thewhole Party must be completely clear about this fundamental dimensionof ournational context, and must base our work on this most important reality—theprimary stage of socialism. We must remain fully committed to the Party’s basicline as the source that keeps the Party and the country going and that bringshappiness to the people. We must lead and unite the Chinese people of all ethnicgroups in fulfilling the central task of economic development. We must upholdtheFour Cardinal Principles,1 continue to reform and open up, be self-reliant, hardworking, and enterprising, and strive to build China into a great modern1 The Four Cardinal Principles are: keeping to the path of socialism, upholding the people’s democraticdictatorship, upholding the leadership of the Communist Party of China, and upholding Marxism-Leninismand Mao Zedong Thought.
11
socialist country that is prosperous, strong, democratic, culturally advanced, harmonious, and beautiful. Comrades, Chinese socialism’s entrance into a new era is, in the historyof thedevelopment of the People’s Republic of China and the history of the developmentof the Chinese nation, of tremendous importance. In the historyof thedevelopment of international socialism and the history of the development ofhuman society, it is of tremendous importance. Our entire Party shoulddevelopunshakeable confidence, work hard and work well to see socialismwithChinesecharacteristics display even stronger vitality. II. The New Era: The Historic Mission of the Communist Party of ChinaA hundred years ago, the salvoes of the October Revolutionbrought
Marxism-Leninism to China. In the scientific truth of Marxism-Leninism, Chineseprogressives saw a solution to China’s problems. With the advent of moderntimes, Chinese society became embroiled in intense upheavals; this was a time of fiercestruggle as the Chinese people resisted feudal rule and foreign aggression. It wasin the midst of this, in 1921, as Marxism-Leninism was integrated with the Chineseworkers’ movement, that the Communist Party of China was born. Fromthat
moment on, the Chinese people have had in the Party a backbone for their pursuitof national independence and liberation, of a stronger and more prosperouscountry, and of their own happiness; and the mindset of the Chinese peoplehaschanged, from passivity to taking the initiative. With a history of more than 5,000 years, our nation created a splendidcivilization, made remarkable contributions to mankind, and became one of theworld’s great nations. But with the Opium War of 1840, China was plungedintothe darkness of domestic turmoil and foreign aggression; its people, ravagedbywar, saw their homeland torn apart and lived in poverty and despair. Withtenacity and heroism, countless dedicated patriots fought, pressed aheadagainstthe odds, and tried every possible means to seek the nation’s salvation. But despitetheir efforts, they were powerless to change the nature of society in oldChinaandthe plight of the Chinese people. National rejuvenation has been the greatest dream of the Chinese peoplesincemodern times began. At its founding, the Communist Party of Chinamade
12
realizing Communism its highest ideal and its ultimate goal, and shoulderedthehistoric mission of national rejuvenation. In pursuing this goal, the Partyhasunited the Chinese people and led them through arduous struggles toepicaccomplishments. Our Party was deeply aware that, to achieve national rejuvenation, it wascritical to topple the three mountains of imperialism, feudalism, andbureaucrat-capitalism that were oppressing the Chinese people, andrealizeChina’s independence, the people’s liberation, national reunification, andsocial
stability. Our Party united the people and led them in embarking ontherightrevolutionary path, using rural areas to encircle the cities and seizing state powerwith military force. We completed the New Democratic Revolution through28years of painful struggle, and founded the People’s Republic of China in1949, thusmarking China’s great transition from a millennia-old feudal autocracytoapeople’s democracy. Our Party was deeply aware that, to achieve national rejuvenation, it wasessential to establish an advanced social system that fits China’s reality. It unitedthe people and led them in completing socialist revolution, establishing socialismas China’s basic system, and advancing socialist construction. This completedthebroadest and most profound social transformation in the history of the Chinesenation. It created the fundamental political conditions and the institutional
foundation for achieving all development and progress in China today. Thus wasmade a great transition: The Chinese nation reversed its fate fromthe continuousdecline of modern times to steady progress toward prosperity and strength. Our Party was deeply aware that, to achieve national rejuvenation, it wasimperative to follow the tide of the times, respond to the wishes of the people, andhave the courage to reform and open; and this awareness created a powerful forcefor advancing the cause of the Party and the people. Our Party unitedthe peopleand led them in launching the great new revolution of reformand openingup, inremoving all ideological and institutional barriers to our country andnation’sdevelopment, and in embarking on the path of socialismwithChinesecharacteristics. Thus was China able to stride ahead to catch up with the times. Over the past 96 years, to accomplish the historic mission of national
rejuvenation, whether in times of weakness or strength, whether intimesofadversity or smooth sailing, our Party has never forgotten its foundingmission, nor wavered in its pursuit. It has united the people and led themin conquering
13
countless challenges, making enormous sacrifices, meeting setbacks squarely, andcourageously righting wrongs. Thus we have, time and again, overcometheseemingly insurmountable and created miracle upon miracle. Comrades, Today, we are closer, more confident, and more capable than ever beforeofmaking the goal of national rejuvenation a reality. As the Chinese saying goes, the last leg of a journey marks the halfwaypoint. Achieving national rejuvenation will be no walk in the park; it will take morethandrum beating and gong clanging to get there. Every one of us in the Partymust beprepared to work even harder toward this goal. Realizing our great dream demands a great struggle. It is in the movement ofcontradictions that a society advances; where there is contradictionthereisstruggle. If our Party is to unite and lead the people to effectively respondtomajorchallenges, withstand major risks, overcome major obstacles, and address majorconflicts, it must undertake a great struggle with many new contemporaryfeatures. All thinking and behavior in the vein of pleasure seeking, inaction andsloth, andproblem avoidance are unacceptable. Every one of us in the Party must do more to uphold Party leadershipandtheChinese socialist system, and resolutely oppose all statements and actions thatundermine, distort, or negate them. We must do more to protect our people’sinterests, and firmly oppose all moves that damage their interests or put distancebetween the Party and the people. We must do more to channel our energiestoward the contemporary current of reform and innovation, andresolvedlyaddress deep-rooted problems. We must do more to safeguard China’s sovereignty, security, and development interests, and staunchly oppose all attempts tosplitChina or undermine its ethnic unity and social harmony and stability. We must domore to guard against all kinds of risks, and work determinedly to prevail overevery political, economic, cultural, social, and natural difficulty and challenge. Every Party member must fully appreciate the long-term, complex, andonerous nature of this great struggle; we must be ready to fight, buildour ability, and keep striving to secure new victories in this great struggle. Realizing our great dream demands a great project. This project is thegreatnew project of Party building that is just getting into full swing. As historyhasshown and will continue to bear witness to, without the leadershipof theCommunist Party of China, national rejuvenation would be just wishful thinking.
14
To remain the vanguard of the times, the backbone of the nation, anda Marxist
governing party, our Party must always hold itself to the highest standards. EveryParty member must be more actively involved in enhancing Party consciousness, and demonstrate commitment to Party principles. We must have the couragetoface problems squarely, be braced for the pain, act to remove whateverundermines the Party’s purity and advanced nature, and rid ourselves of anyvirusthat erodes the Party’s health. We must keep on strengthening the Party’s abilitytolead politically, to guide through theory, to organize the people, andtoinspiresociety, thus ensuring that the Party’s great vitality and strong ability are forevermaintained. Realizing our great dream demands a great cause. SocialismwithChinesecharacteristics has been the focus of all of the Party’s theories and practicesincereform and opening up began. It is the fundamental achievement of our Partyandour people made through countless hardships at enormous cost. The pathofsocialism with Chinese characteristics is the only path to socialist modernizationand a better life for the people. The theory of socialism with Chinese characteristicsis the right theory to guide the Party and people to realize national rejuvenation. The system of socialism with Chinese characteristics provides the fundamental
institutional guarantee for progress and development in contemporary China. Theculture of socialism with Chinese characteristics is a powerful source of strengththat inspires all members of the Party and the people of all ethnic groups inChina. Our whole Party must strengthen our confidence in the path, theory, system, andculture of socialism with Chinese characteristics. We must neither retrace our stepsto the rigidity and isolation of the past, nor take the wrong turn by changingournature and abandoning our system. We must maintain our political orientation, dothe good solid work that sees our country thrive, and continue to upholdanddevelop socialism with Chinese characteristics. This great struggle, great project, great cause, and great dreamare closelyconnected, flow seamlessly into each other, and are mutually reinforcing. Amongthem, the great new project of Party building plays the decisive role. All worktoadvance this project must go hand in hand with that geared toward the struggle, the cause, and the dream. We must see that as history progresses andthe worldundergoes profound changes, the Party remains always ahead of the times; that ashistory progresses and we respond to risks and tests at home and abroad, thePartyremains always the backbone of the nation; and that as history progresses andwecontinue to uphold and develop socialism with Chinese characteristics, theParty
15
remains always a powerful leadership core. Comrades, Our mission is a call to action; our mission steers the course to the future. Wemust live up to the trust the people have placed in us and prove ourselves worthyof history’s choice. In the great endeavors of building socialismwithChinesecharacteristics in the new era, let us get behind the strong leadership of thePartyand engage in a tenacious struggle. Let all of us, the sons and daughters of theChinese nation, come together, keep going, and create a mighty force that enablesus to realize the Chinese Dream. III. The Thought on Socialism with Chinese Characteristics
for a New Era and the Basic Policy
Since our 18th National Congress, changes both in and outside China, andtheprogress made in all areas of China’s endeavors, have presentedus withaprofound question—the question of an era. Our answer must be a systematiccombination of theory and practice and must address what kind of socialismwithChinese characteristics the new era requires us to uphold and develop, andhowwe should go about doing it. This involves fundamental issues like the overarchingobjectives, tasks, plan, and strategy for upholding and developing socialismwithChinese characteristics in the new era; like the direction, model, and drivingforceof development, and the strategic steps, external conditions, andpolitical
guarantees. As well as this, to uphold and develop socialismwithChinesecharacteristics, we should, based on new practice, undertake theoretical analysisand produce policy guidance on the economy, political affairs, rule of law, scienceand technology, culture, education, the wellbeing of our people, ethnic andreligious affairs, social development, ecological conservation, national security, defense and the armed forces, the principle of “one country, two systems”andnational reunification, the united front, foreign affairs, and Party building. In answering this question, our Party has been guided by Marxism-Leninism, Mao Zedong Thought, Deng Xiaoping Theory, the Theory of Three Represents, and the Scientific Outlook on Development. It has continued to free our minds, seek truth from facts, move with the times, and apply a realistic andpragmaticapproach. In answering this question, our Party has continued toupholddialectical and historical materialism; has considered carefully the newconditions
16
of the era and the new requirements of practice; and has adopted an entirelynewperspective to deepen its understanding of the laws that underlie governancebyaCommunist party, the development of socialism, and the evolution of humansociety. It has worked hard to undertake theoretical explorations, and has achievedmajor theoretical innovations, ultimately giving shape to the Thought onSocialismwith Chinese Characteristics for a New Era. The Thought on Socialism with Chinese Characteristics for a NewEramakesthe following things clear:  It makes clear that the overarching goal of upholding and developingsocialism with Chinese characteristics is to realize socialist modernizationand national rejuvenation, and, that on the basis of finishing the buildingof a moderately prosperous society in all respects, a two-stepapproachshould be taken to build China into a great modern socialist countrythat isprosperous, strong, democratic, culturally advanced, harmonious, andbeautiful by the middle of the century.  It makes clear that the principal contradiction facing Chinese societyinthenew era is that between unbalanced and inadequate development andthepeople’s ever-growing needs for a better life. We must therefore continuecommitment to our people-centered philosophy of development, andworkto promote well-rounded human development and common prosperityforeveryone.  It makes clear that the overall plan for building socialismwithChinesecharacteristics is the five-sphere integrated plan, and the overall strategyisthe four-pronged comprehensive strategy. It highlights the importanceoffostering stronger confidence in the path, theory, system, andcultureofsocialism with Chinese characteristics.  It makes clear that the overall goal of deepening reformin every fieldistoimprove and develop the system of socialism with Chinese characteristicsand modernize China’s system and capacity for governance.  It makes clear that the overall goal of comprehensively advancinglaw-based governance is to establish a system of socialist rule of lawwithChinese characteristics and build a country of socialist rule of law.  It makes clear that the Party’s goal of building a strong military inthenewera is to build the people’s forces into world-class forces that obeytheParty’s command, can fight and win, and maintain excellent conduct.
17
 It makes clear that major country diplomacy with Chinese characteristicsaims to foster a new type of international relations and build a communitywith a shared future for mankind.  It makes clear that the defining feature of socialismwithChinesecharacteristics is the leadership of the Communist Party of China; thegreatest strength of the system of socialism with Chinese characteristicsisthe leadership of the Communist Party of China; the Party is the highest
force for political leadership. It sets forth the general requirementsforParty building in the new era and underlines the importance of political
work in Party building. The Thought on Socialism with Chinese Characteristics for a NewErabuildson and further enriches Marxism-Leninism, Mao Zedong Thought, DengXiaopingTheory, the Theory of Three Represents, and the Scientific OutlookonDevelopment. It represents the latest achievement in adapting MarxismtotheChinese context and encapsulates the practical experience and collective wisdomof our Party and the people. It is an important component of the theoryofsocialism with Chinese characteristics, and a guide to action for all our membersand all the Chinese people as we strive to achieve national rejuvenation. ThisThought must be adhered to and steadily developed on a long-termbasis. Everyone in the Party should develop a good grasp of the essence andrichimplications of the Thought on Socialism with Chinese Characteristics for aNewEra and fully and faithfully apply it in all our work. 1. Ensuring Party leadership over all work
The Party exercises overall leadership over all areas of endeavor in everypartof the country. We must strengthen our consciousness of the need to maintainpolitical integrity, think in big-picture terms, follow the leadership core, andkeepin alignment. We must work harder to uphold the authority and centralized, unified leadership of the Central Committee, and closely followthe Central
Committee in terms of our thinking, political orientation, and actions. Wemust
improve the institutions and mechanisms for upholding Party leadership, remaincommitted to the underlying principle of pursuing progress while ensuringstability, and ensure coordinated implementation of the five-sphere integratedplan and the four-pronged comprehensive strategy. We must strengthentheParty’s ability and resolve to chart our course, craft overall plans, designpolicy, and promote reform; and we must ensure the Party always provides overall
18
leadership and coordinates the efforts of all involved. 2. Committing to a people-centered approach
The people are the creators of history; they are the fundamental forcethatdetermines our Party and country’s future. We must ensure the principal statusofthe people, and adhere to the Party’s commitment to serving the public goodandexercising power in the interests of the people. We must observe the Party’sfundamental purpose of wholeheartedly serving the people, and put intopracticethe Party’s mass line in all aspects of governance. We must regard as our goal thepeople’s aspirations to live a better life, and rely on the people to move historyforward. 3. Continuing to comprehensively deepen reform
Only with socialism can we save China; only with reformand openingcanwedevelop China, develop socialism, and develop Marxism. We must upholdandimprove the system of socialism with Chinese characteristics and continuetomodernize China’s system and capacity for governance. We must havethedetermination to get rid of all outdated thinking and ideas and all institutional
ailments, and to break through the blockades of vested interests. We shoulddrawon the achievements of other civilizations, develop a set of institutions that arewell
conceived, fully built, procedure based, and efficiently functioning, anddofull
justice to the strengths of China’s socialist system. 4. Adopting a new vision for development
Development is the underpinning and the key for solving all our country’sproblems; our development must be sound development. We must pursuewithfirmness of purpose the vision of innovative, coordinated, green, andopendevelopment that is for everyone. We must uphold and improve China’s basicsocialist economic system and socialist distribution system. There must benoirresolution about working to consolidate and develop the public sector; andtheremust be no irresolution about working to encourage, support, andguidethedevelopment of the non-public sector. We must see that the market plays thedecisive role in resource allocation, the government plays its role better, andnewindustrialization, IT application, urbanization, and agricultural modernizationgohand in hand. We must actively participate in and promote economic globalization, develop an open economy of higher standards, and continue to increase China’seconomic power and composite strength. 5. Seeing that the people run the country
19
Commitment to the organic unity of Party leadership, the runningof thecountry by the people, and law-based governance is a natural element of socialistpolitical advancement. We must keep to the path of socialist political advancementwith Chinese characteristics; uphold and improve the systemof people’scongresses, the system of Party-led multiparty cooperation andpolitical
consultation, the system of regional ethnic autonomy, and the systemofcommunity-level self-governance; and consolidate and develop the broadestpossible patriotic united front. We should develop socialist consultative democracy, improve our democratic institutions, diversify our forms of democracy, andestablish more democratic channels. We must see to it that the principle of thepeople running the country is put into practice in China’s political andsocial
activities. 6. Ensuring every dimension of governance is law-based
Law-based governance is an essential requirement and important guaranteefor socialism with Chinese characteristics. We must exercise Party leadershipatevery point in the process and over every dimension of law-based governance, andbe fully committed to promoting socialist rule of law with Chinese characteristics. We must improve the Chinese socialist system of laws, at the heart of whichistheConstitution; establish a Chinese system of socialist rule of law; builda socialistcountry based on the rule of law; and develop Chinese socialist rule of lawtheory. We must pursue coordinated progress in law-based governance, law-basedexercise of state power, and law-based government administration, andpromotethe integrated development of rule of law for the country, the government, andsociety. We must continue to promote a combination of rule of lawandruleofvirtue, and combine law-based governance of the country and rule-basedgovernance over the Party. We must further the reform of the judicial system, andstrengthen rule of law awareness among all our people while also enhancingtheirmoral integrity. 7. Upholding core socialist values
Cultural confidence represents a fundamental and profound force that sustainsthe development of a country and a nation. We must uphold Marxism, firmupandfurther build the ideal of Communism and a shared ideal of socialismwithChinese characteristics, and nurture and practice core socialist values, whilemaking continued and greater efforts to maintain the initiative and ensure wehaveour say in the realm of ideology. We must promote the creative evolutionand
20
development of fine traditional Chinese culture, see our revolutionarycultureremains alive and strong, and develop an advanced socialist culture. We shouldcherish our cultural roots, draw on other cultures, and be forward-thinking. Weshould do more to foster a Chinese spirit, Chinese values, and Chinese strengthtoprovide a source of cultural and moral guidance for our people. 8. Ensuring and improving living standards through development
The wellbeing of the people is the fundamental goal of development. Wemustdo more to improve the lives and address the concerns of the people, andusedevelopment to strengthen areas of weakness and promote social fairness andjustice. We should make steady progress in ensuring people’s access to childcare, education, employment, medical services, elderly care, housing, andsocial
assistance. We will intensify poverty alleviation, see that all our people haveagreater sense of fulfillment as they contribute to and gain fromdevelopment, andcontinue to promote well-rounded human development and common prosperityfor everyone. We will continue the Peaceful China initiative, strengthenanddevelop new forms of social governance, and ensure social harmony andstability. We must work hard to see that our country enjoys enduring peace andstabilityand our people live and work in contentment. 9. Ensuring harmony between human and nature
Building an ecological civilization is vital to sustain the Chinese nation’sdevelopment. We must realize that lucid waters and lush mountains are invaluableassets and act on this understanding, implement our fundamental national policyof conserving resources and protecting the environment, and cherishtheenvironment as we cherish our own lives. We will adopt a holistic approachtoconserving our mountains, rivers, forests, farmlands, lakes, and grasslands, implement the strictest possible systems for environmental protection, anddevelopeco-friendly growth models and ways of life. We must pursue a model of sustainable development featuring increasedproduction, higher living standards, and healthy ecosystems. We must continuethe Beautiful China initiative to create good working and living environmentsforour people and play our part in ensuring global ecological security. 10. Pursuing a holistic approach to national security
We should ensure both development and security and be ever ready toprotectagainst potential dangers in time of peace. This is a major principle underlyingtheParty’s governance. We must put national interests first, take protectingour
21
people’s security as our mission and safeguarding political securityasafundamental task, and ensure both internal and external security, homelandandpublic security, traditional and non-traditional security, and China’s ownandcommon security. We will improve our systems and institutions andenhancecapacity-building for national security, and resolutely safeguardChina’ssovereignty, security, and development interests. 11. Upholding absolute Party leadership over the people’s armed forces
Building people’s forces that obey the Party’s command, can fight andwin, and maintain excellent conduct is strategically important to achievingthetwocentenary goals
1 and national rejuvenation. To realize the Party’s goal of buildinga powerful military in the new era, we must fully implement the fundamental
principles and systems of Party leadership over the military, and see that Partystrategy on strengthening military capabilities for the new era guides worktobuildnational defense and the armed forces. We must continue to enhance the political
loyalty of the armed forces, strengthen them through reformand technology, andrun them in accordance with law. We must place greater focus oncombat, encourage innovation, build systems, increase efficacy and efficiency, andfurthermilitary-civilian integration. 12. Upholding the principle of “one country, two systems” andpromotingnational reunification
Maintaining lasting prosperity and stability in Hong Kong and Macaoandachieving China’s full reunification are essential to realizing national rejuvenation. We must ensure both the central government’s overall jurisdiction over theHongKong and Macao special administrative regions and a high degree of autonomyinthe two regions. We should ensure that the principle of “one country, twosystems” remains unchanged, is unwaveringly upheld, and in practice is not bentor distorted. We must uphold the one-China principle and the 1992 Consensus, promote the peaceful development of cross-Straits relations, deepeneconomiccooperation and cultural exchange between the two sides of the Straits, andencourage fellow Chinese on both sides to oppose all separatist activities andworktogether to realize Chinese national rejuvenation. 13. Promoting the building of a community with a shared futurefor1 The two centenary goals are to finish building a moderately prosperous society in all respects bythetime the Communist Party of China marks its centenary and to build China into a modern socialist countrythat is prosperous, strong, democratic, culturally advanced, and harmonious by the time the People’s Republicof China celebrates its centenary.
22
mankind
The dream of the Chinese people is closely connected with the dreams of thepeoples of other countries; the Chinese Dream can be realized only in a peaceful
international environment and under a stable international order. We must keepinmind both our internal and international imperatives, stay on the path of peaceful
development, and continue to pursue a mutually beneficial strategy of openingup. We will uphold justice while pursuing shared interests, and will foster newthinking on common, comprehensive, cooperative, and sustainable security. Wewill pursue open, innovative, and inclusive development that benefits everyone;
boost cross-cultural exchanges characterized by harmony within diversity, inclusiveness, and mutual learning; and cultivate ecosystems based on respect fornature and green development. China will continue its efforts to safeguardworldpeace, contribute to global development, and uphold international order. 14. Exercising full and rigorous governance over the Party
To have the courage to carry out self-reform and conduct strict self-governance:
this is the most distinctive part of our Party’s character. We must upholdthePartyConstitution as our fundamental rules, give top priority to the political workof theParty, combine efforts on ideological work and institution building, andstrengthenParty competence in all respects. We must focus on oversight over the “keyfew,”by which we mean leading officials, and see that the principle of Three Stricts andThree Earnests are observed. We must uphold democratic centralism, ensure that intrapartypolitical
activities are carried out in earnest, impose strict Party discipline, andstrengtheninternal oversight. We must develop a positive and healthy political cultureintheParty and improve the Party’s political ecosystem, resolutely correct misconduct inall its forms, and show zero tolerance for corruption. We will continuetostrengthen the Party’s ability to purify, improve, and reformitself, andforevermaintain its close ties with the people. The above 14 points form the basic policy that underpins our endeavorstouphold and develop socialism with Chinese characteristics in the newera. All ourmembers must fully implement the Party’s basic theory, line, and policysoastobetter steer the development of the Party and people’s cause. Just as there are no bounds to practice, there is no end to theoretical
exploration. The world is changing with every second, every moment; andChina, too, is changing with every second, every moment. We must ensure our theory
23
evolves with the times, deepen our appreciation of objective laws, and advanceourtheoretical, practical, institutional, cultural, and other explorations. Comrades, The era is the mother of thought; practice is the fount of theory. If we respondto the call of our times and have the courage to uphold truth and correct errors, theMarxism of 21st century China will, without a doubt, emanate more mighty, morecompelling power of truth. IV. Securing a Decisive Victory in Building a Moderately Prosperous Societyin All Respects and Embarking on a Journey to
Fully Build a Modern Socialist China
After adopting the policy of reform and opening up, our Party laidout threestrategic goals for achieving socialist modernization in China. Thefirst
two—ensuring that people’s basic needs are met and that their lives are generallydecent—have been accomplished ahead of time. Building on this, our Partythendeveloped the vision that by the time we celebrate our centenary, we will havedeveloped our society into a moderately prosperous one with a stronger economy, greater democracy, more advanced science and education, thriving culture, greatersocial harmony, and a better quality of life. After this, with another 30 yearsofwork, and by the time we celebrate the centenary of the People’s Republic of China, we will have basically achieved modernization and turned China into a modernsocialist country. The period between now and 2020 will be decisive in finishing the buildingofa moderately prosperous society in all respects. We must followthe requirementson building this society set out at our 16th, 17th, and 18th National Congresses, act
in response to the evolution of the principal contradiction in Chinese society, andpromote coordinated economic, political, cultural, social, and ecological
advancement. We must show firm resolve in implementing the strategyforinvigorating China through science and education, the strategy on developingaquality workforce, the innovation-driven development strategy, the rural
vitalization strategy, the coordinated regional development strategy, thesustainable development strategy, and the military-civilian integrationstrategy. We must focus on priorities, address inadequacies, and shore uppointsofweakness. In this regard, I want to stress that we must take tough steps toforestall
24
and defuse major risks, carry out targeted poverty alleviation, and prevent andcontrol pollution, so that the moderately prosperous society we buildearnsthepeople’s approval and stands the test of time. The period between the 19th and the 20th National Congress is the periodinwhich the timeframes of the two centenary goals converge. In this period, not onlymust we finish building a moderately prosperous society in all respects andachieve the first centenary goal; we must also build on this achievement toembarkon a new journey toward the second centenary goal of fully building a modernsocialist country. Based on a comprehensive analysis of the international anddomesticenvironments and the conditions for China’s development, we have drawnupatwo-stage development plan for the period from 2020 to the middle of this century. In the first stage from 2020 to 2035, we will build on the foundation createdbythe moderately prosperous society with a further 15 years of hard work toseethatsocialist modernization is basically realized. The vision is that by the endof thisstage, the following goals will have been met:  China’s economic and technological strength has increased significantly. China has become a global leader in innovation.  The rights of the people to participate and to develop as equals areadequately protected. The rule of law for the country, the government, andsociety is basically in place. Institutions in all fields are further improved;
the modernization of China’s system and capacity for governanceisbasically achieved.  Social etiquette and civility are significantly enhanced. China’s cultural softpower has grown much stronger; Chinese culture has greater appeal.  People are leading more comfortable lives, and the size of themiddle-income group has grown considerably. Disparities in urban-rural
development, in development between regions, and in living standardsaresignificantly reduced; equitable access to basic public services is basicallyensured; and solid progress has been made toward prosperityforeveryone.  A modern social governance system has basically taken shape, andsocietyis full of vitality, harmonious, and orderly.  There is a fundamental improvement in the environment; the goal of
25
building a Beautiful China is basically attained. In the second stage from 2035 to the middle of the 21st century, wewill, building on having basically achieved modernization, work hard for a further 15years and develop China into a great modern socialist country that is prosperous, strong, democratic, culturally advanced, harmonious, and beautiful. By the endofthis stage, the following goals will have been met:  New heights are reached in every dimension of material, political, cultural
and ethical, social, and ecological advancement.  Modernization of China’s system and capacity for governance is achieved.  China has become a global leader in terms of composite national strengthand international influence.  Common prosperity for everyone is basically achieved.  The Chinese people enjoy happier, safer, and healthier lives. The Chinese nation will become a proud and active member of the communityof nations. Comrades, This is our strategic vision for developing socialismwithChinesecharacteristics in the new era: Finish building a moderately prosperous societyinall respects, move on to basically realizing modernization, and then turntomakingChina a great modern socialist country in every dimension. We must workwithresolve and tenacity and strive to write a brilliant chapter on our newjourneytosocialist modernization. V. Applying a New Vision of Development and
Developing a Modernized Economy
To deliver on the two centenary goals, realize the Chinese Dreamof national
rejuvenation, and steadily improve our people’s lives, we must continue topursuedevelopment as the Party’s top priority in governance; we must unleashanddevelop productive forces, continue reforms to develop the socialist marketeconomy, and promote sustained and sound economic growth. China’s economy has been transitioning from a phase of rapid growthtoastage of high-quality development. This is a pivotal stage for transformingourgrowth model, improving our economic structure, and fostering newdriversof
26
growth. It is imperative that we develop a modernized economy. This is bothanurgent requirement for getting us smoothly through this critical transitionandastrategic goal for China’s development. We must put quality first and give priorityto performance. We should pursue supply-side structural reformas our maintask, and work hard for better quality, higher efficiency, and more robust driversofeconomic growth through reform. We need to raise total factor productivityandaccelerate the building of an industrial system that promotes coordinateddevelopment of the real economy with technological innovation, modernfinance, and human resources. We should endeavor to develop an economy withmoreeffective market mechanisms, dynamic micro-entities, and sound macro-regulation. This will steadily strengthen the innovation capacity and competitivenessofChina’s economy. 1. Furthering supply-side structural reform
In developing a modernized economy, we must focus on the real economy, give priority to improving the quality of the supply system, and enhanceoureconomy’s strength in terms of quality. We will work faster to build China into a manufacturer of quality anddevelopadvanced manufacturing, promote further integration of the internet, big data, andartificial intelligence with the real economy, and foster newgrowth areas anddrivers of growth in medium-high end consumption, innovation-drivendevelopment, the green and low-carbon economy, the sharing economy, modernsupply chains, and human capital services. We will support traditional industriesin upgrading themselves and accelerate development of modern service industriesto elevate them to international standards. We will move Chinese industries uptothe medium-high end of the global value chain, and foster a number of world-classadvanced manufacturing clusters. We will strengthen infrastructure networks for water conservancy, railways, highways, waterways, aviation, pipelines, power grids, information, andlogistics. We will continue efforts to cut overcapacity, reduce excess inventory, deleverage, lower costs, and strengthen areas of weakness, and work to achieve a dynamicbalance between supply and demand by improving the allocation of availableresources and increasing high-quality supply. We will inspire and protect entrepreneurship, and encourage more entitiestomake innovations and start businesses. We will build an educated, skilled, andinnovative workforce, foster respect for model workers, promote quality
27
workmanship, and see that taking pride in labor becomes a social normandseeking excellence is valued as a good work ethic. 2. Making China a country of innovators
Innovation is the primary driving force behind development; it is the strategicunderpinning for building a modernized economy. We should aim for the frontiers of science and technology, strengthenbasicresearch, and make major breakthroughs in pioneering basic researchandgroundbreaking and original innovations. We will strengthen basic researchinapplied sciences, launch major national science and technology projects, andprioritize innovation in key generic technologies, cutting-edge frontiertechnologies, modern engineering technologies, and disruptive technologies. Theseefforts will provide powerful support for building China’s strength in scienceandtechnology, product quality, aerospace, cyberspace, and transportation; andforbuilding a digital China and a smart society. We will improve our national innovation system and boost our strategicscientific and technological strength. We will further reformthe managementsystem for science and technology, and develop a market-oriented systemfortechnological innovation in which enterprises are the main players andsynergyiscreated through the joint efforts of enterprises, universities, and researchinstitutes. We will support innovation by small and medium-sized enterprises andencouragethe application of advances in science and technology. We will foster a culture of innovation, and strengthen the creation, protection, and application of intellectual property. We should cultivate a large number ofworld-class scientists and technologists in strategically important fields, scientificand technological leaders, and young scientists and engineers, as well ashigh-performing innovation teams. 3. Pursuing a rural vitalization strategy
Issues relating to agriculture, rural areas, and rural people are fundamental toChina as they directly concern our country’s stability and our people’s wellbeing. Addressing these issues should have a central place on the work agendaof theParty, and we must prioritize the development of agriculture and rural areas. Tobuild rural areas with thriving businesses, pleasant living environments, social
etiquette and civility, effective governance, and prosperity, we need to put inplacesound systems, mechanisms, and policies for promoting integrated urban-rural
development, and speed up the modernization of agriculture and rural areas.
28
We will consolidate and improve the basic rural operation system, advancereform of the rural land system, and improve the systemfor separatingtheownership rights, contract rights, and management rights for contractedrural land. Rural land contracting practices will remain stable and unchanged on a long-termbasis; the current round of contracts will be extended for another 30 years uponexpiration. We will press ahead with reform of the rural collective propertyrightssystem, safeguard the property rights and interests of rural people, andstrengthenthe collective economy. We must ensure China’s food security so that we always have control over ourown food supply. We will establish industrial, production, and business operationsystems for modern agriculture, and improve the systems for supportingandprotecting agriculture. We will develop appropriately scaled agricultural
operations of various forms, cultivate new types of agribusiness, improvespecialized agricultural services, and encourage small household farmerstobecome involved in modern agriculture. We will promote the integrated development of the primary, secondary, andtertiary industries in rural areas, support and encourage employment andbusinessstartups there, and open up more channels to increase rural incomes. Wewill
strengthen basic services in rural communities, and improve the rural governancemodel which combines self-governance, rule of law, and rule of virtue. Wewill
train professional rural service personnel who have a good knowledgeofagriculture, love our rural areas, and care about rural people. 4. Implementing the coordinated regional development strategy
We will devote more energy to speeding up the development of oldrevolutionary base areas, areas with large ethnic minority populations, borderareas, and poor areas. We will strengthen measures to reach a newstage inthelarge-scale development of the western region; deepen reformto acceleratetherevitalization of old industrial bases in the northeast and other parts of the country;
help the central region rise by tapping into local strengths; and support the easternregion in taking the lead in pursuing optimal development through innovation. Tothis end, we need to put in place new, effective mechanisms to ensure coordinateddevelopment of different regions. We will create networks of cities and towns based on city clusters, enablingthecoordinated development of cities of different sizes and small towns, andspeedupwork on granting permanent urban residency to people who move fromrural to
29
urban areas. We will relieve Beijing of functions nonessential to its role asthecapital and use this effort to drive the coordinated development of theBeijing-Tianjin-Hebei region; and we will develop forward-looking plans andadopt high standards for building the Xiongan New Area. We will facilitatethedevelopment of the Yangtze Economic Belt by promoting well-coordinatedenvironmental conservation and avoiding excessive development. Support will begiven to resource-depleted areas in their economic transformation. Wewill
accelerate development in the border areas, and ensure their stability andsecurity. We will pursue coordinated land and marine development, and step upeffortstobuild China into a strong maritime country. 5. Accelerating efforts to improve the socialist market economy
In our economic reforms, we must concentrate on improving the propertyrights system and ensuring the market-based allocation of factors of production, sothat property rights act as effective incentives. We should ensure free flowsoffactors, flexible prices, fair and orderly competition, and that business survival isdetermined by competition. We will improve the systems for managing different types of state assets, andreform the system of authorized operation of state capital. In the state-ownedsector, we will step up improved distribution, structural adjustment, andstrategicreorganization. We will work to see that state assets maintain and increasetheirvalue; we will support state capital in becoming stronger, doing better, andgrowing bigger, and take effective measures to prevent the loss of state assets. Wewill further reform of state-owned enterprises, develop mixed-ownershipeconomic entities, and turn Chinese enterprises into world-class, globallycompetitive firms. We will introduce a negative list for market access nationwide, sort through and do away with regulations and practices that impedethedevelopment of a unified market and fair competition, support the growthofprivate businesses, and stimulate the vitality of various market entities. We will deepen reforms in the business sector, break administrativemonopolies, preclude the forming of market monopolies, speed up the reformofmarket-based pricing of factors of production, relax control over market accessinthe service sector, and improve market oversight mechanisms. We will developnew methods to improve macro-regulation, give full play to the strategic guidanceof national development plans, and improve mechanisms for coordinatingfiscal, monetary, industrial, regional, and other economic policies.
30
We will improve systems and mechanisms for stimulating consumer spending, and leverage the fundamental role of consumption in promoting economic growth. We will deepen reform of the investment and financing systems, andenableinvestment to play a crucial role in improving the supply structure. We will expedite the creation of a modern public finance system, andestablisha fiscal relationship between the central and local governments built uponclearlydefined powers and responsibilities, appropriate financial resource allocation, andgreater balance between regions. We will put in place a comprehensive, procedure-based, transparent budgetsystem that uses well-conceived standards and imposes effective constraints; andwe will implement performance-based management nationwide. We will deepen reform of the taxation system, and improve the local taxsystem. We will deepen institutional reform in the financial sector, make it betterserve the real economy, increase the proportion of direct financing, andpromotethe healthy development of a multilevel capital market. We will improve the framework of regulation underpinned by monetarypolicy and macro-prudential policy, and see that interest rates and exchangeratesbecome more market-based. We will improve the financial regulatory systemtoforestall systemic financial risks. 6. Making new ground in pursuing opening up on all fronts
Openness brings progress, while self-seclusion leaves one behind. Chinawill
not close its door to the world; we will only become more and more open. We should pursue the Belt and Road Initiative as a priority, give equal
emphasis to ”bringing in” and “going global,” follow the principle of achievingshared growth through discussion and collaboration, and increase openness andcooperation in building innovation capacity. With these efforts, we hope tomakenew ground in opening China further through links running eastwardandwestward, across land and over sea. We will expand foreign trade, develop new models and newforms of trade, and turn China into a trader of quality. We will adopt policies to promotehigh-standard liberalization and facilitation of trade and investment; wewill
implement the system of pre-establishment national treatment plus a negativelistacross the board, significantly ease market access, further open the service sector, and protect the legitimate rights and interests of foreign investors. All businessesregistered in China will be treated equally.
31
We will improve the balance in opening our different regions, andopenthewestern region wider. We will grant more powers to pilot free trade zonestoconduct reform, and explore the opening of free trade ports. We will developnewways of making outbound investments, promote international cooperationonproduction capacity, form globally-oriented networks of trade, investment andfinancing, production, and services, and build up our strengths for international
economic cooperation and competition. Comrades, Unlocking and developing the productive forces is a fundamental taskofsocialism. We must inspire creativity and vitality throughout society, andstrivetoachieve better quality, more efficient, fairer, and more sustainable development. VI. Improving the System of Institutions through Which the PeopleRun the Country and Developing Socialist Democracy
China is a socialist country of people’s democratic dictatorshipunder theleadership of the working class based on an alliance of workers and farmers; it isacountry where all power of the state belongs to the people. China’s socialist
democracy is the broadest, most genuine, and most effective democracytosafeguard the fundamental interests of the people. The very purpose of developingsocialist democracy is to give full expression to the will of the people, protect theirrights and interests, spark their creativity, and provide systemic and institutional
guarantees to ensure the people run the country. The path of socialist political advancement with Chinese characteristics isthelogical outcome of the evolution of history, theory, and practice as the Chinesepeople have long engaged in struggles since the advent of modern times. It isarequisite for maintaining the very nature of the Party and fulfilling its fundamental
purpose. No two political systems are entirely the same, and a political systemcannot bejudged in abstraction without regard for its social and political context, its history, and its cultural traditions. No one political system should be regardedas theonlychoice; and we should not just mechanically copy the political systems of othercountries.
32
We must uphold long term and steadily strengthen China’s socialist
democracy, make active and prudent efforts to advance the reformof the political
system, and improve the institutions, standards, and procedures of socialistdemocracy. We should ensure that people participate, in accordance withlawandin various ways and forms, in the management of state, economic, cultural, andsocial affairs, and consolidate and enhance political stability, unity, and vitality. 1. Upholding the unity of Party leadership, the running of the countrybythepeople, and law-based governance
Party leadership is the fundamental guarantee for ensuring that the peoplerunthe country and governance in China is law-based; that the people run the countryis an essential feature of socialist democracy; and law-based governance is thebasic way for the Party to lead the people in governing the country. Thesethreeelements are integral components of socialist democracy. In China’s political life, our Party exercises leadership. Strengtheningthecentralized, unified leadership of the Party on the one hand and, on the other, supporting the people’s congresses, governments, committees of the ChinesePeople’s Political Consultative Conference (CPPCC), courts, and procuratoratesinperforming their functions and playing their roles in accordance with the lawandtheir charters, form a unified pair. We will improve the way the Party exercises leadership and governancetoensure that it leads the people in effectively governing the country. We will expandthe people’s orderly political participation to see that in accordance withlawtheyengage in democratic elections, consultations, decision-making, management, andoversight. We should uphold the unity, sanctity, and authority of China’s legal
system, and strengthen legal protection for human rights to ensure that the peopleenjoy extensive rights and freedoms as prescribed by law. We shouldbothconsolidate government and improve the institutions of democracy at the primarylevel to ensure the people’s rights to be informed, to participate, to be heard, andtooversee. We will improve mechanisms for law-based decision-making, and put inplacemechanisms for the exercise of power that ensure sound decision-making, resoluteexecution, and effective oversight. Officials at all levels must deepentheirunderstanding of democracy, be democratic in their conduct, willinglyacceptpublic oversight, and perform as they should in their role as public servants. 2. Strengthening institutional guarantees to ensure the people runthe
33
country
We must uphold long term and steadily improve the systemof people’scongresses, a political system fundamental to the Party’s leadership, the runningofthe country by the people, and law-based governance. We should support andensure the people’s exercise of state power through people’s congresses. We should see to it that people’s congresses and their standing committeesplay the leading role in lawmaking, and improve the organizational andworkingsystems of people’s congresses to support and ensure the exercise of their statutorypowers of enacting laws, conducting oversight, making decisions, andappointingand removing officials. We should give better play to the role of deputiestopeople’s congresses, and enable people’s congresses at all levels and their standingcommittees to fully perform their functions as stipulated in the Constitutionandthe law, and to truly represent the people and maintain close ties withthem. Weshould improve the setup of special committees of people’s congresses andthecomposition of their standing committees and special committees. 3. Giving play to the important role of socialist consultative democracyThe essence of the people’s democracy is that the people get to discuss theirown affairs. Consultative democracy is an important way of effectingPartyleadership and a model and strength unique to China’s socialist democracy. Wewill advance extensive, multilevel, and institutionalized development ofconsultative democracy, and adopt a coordinated approach to promotingconsultations carried out by political parties, people’s congresses, governmentdepartments, CPPCC committees, people’s organizations, communities, andsocial
organizations. We will strengthen the institutions of consultative democracyanddevelop complete procedures and practices to enable the people’s broad, continuous, and intensive participation in day-to-day political activities. The CPPCC, as a distinctively Chinese political institution, is a major channel
for socialist consultative democracy, and its committees are specialist consultativebodies. The CPPCC committees should focus on the Party and the country’s keytasks. With the themes of unity and democracy in mind, they shouldexerciseconsultative democracy throughout the whole process of political consultation, democratic oversight, and participation in the deliberation and administrationofstate affairs; and they should improve the content and forms of consultationanddeliberation to build consensus and promote unity. They shouldstrengthendemocratic oversight, focusing on the implementation of the major principles,
34
policies, decisions, and plans of the Party and the state. They shouldbetterrepresent the different social sectors and strengthen the competence of theirmembers. 4. Advancing law-based governance
Advancing law-based governance in all fields is a profound revolutioninChina’s governance. We must promote the rule of law and work to ensure soundlawmaking, strict law enforcement, impartial administration of justice, andtheobservance of law by everyone. A central leading group for advancing law-basedgovernance in all areas will be set up to exercise unified leadershipover theinitiative to build rule of law in China. We will strengthen oversight toensurecompliance with the Constitution, advance constitutionality review, andsafeguardthe authority of the Constitution. We will carry out lawmaking in a well-conceivedand democratic way and in accordance with law, so that good laws are madetopromote development and ensure good governance. We will build a rule of lawgovernment, promote law-based government administration, and see that lawisenforced in a strict, procedure-based, impartial, and non-abusive way. Wewill
carry out comprehensive and integrated reform of the judicial systemandenforcejudicial accountability in all respects, so that the people can see in everyjudicial
case that justice is served. We will redouble efforts to raise public awareness of the law, developasocialist culture of rule of law, and increase public awareness of the principleunderlying rule of law that the Constitution and the law are above everythingelseand that everyone is equal before the law. Every Party organization andeveryParty member must take the lead in respecting, learning about, observing, andapplying the law. No organization or individual has the power to oversteptheConstitution or the law; and no one is allowed in any way to override the lawwithhis or her own orders, place his or her authority above the law, violate the lawforpersonal gain, or abuse the law. 5. Deepening reform of Party and government institutions andthe systemof government administration
We will adopt a comprehensive approach to the setup of Partyandgovernment institutions, and ensure that powers are designated properlyandfunctions and duties are defined clearly both for the institutions themselves andtheir internal bodies. We will use various types of staffing resources inacoordinated way, develop a sound system of administration, and improvethe
35
organic law for state institutions. The government needs to transformits functions, further streamline administration and delegate powers, develop newwaysofregulation and supervision, and strengthen its credibility and administrativecapacity, building itself into a service-oriented government able to satisfytheneeds of the people. More decision making power should be given to governments at andbelowthe provincial level, and ways should be explored to merge Party and governmentbodies with similar functions at the provincial, prefectural, and county levels or forthem to work together as one office while keeping separate identities. Wewill
deepen the reform of public institutions to see that they focus on servingpublicinterests, relieve them of government functions, keep themaway frombusinessactivities, and let them run their own day-to-day operations while maintainingsupervision over them. 6. Consolidating and developing the patriotic united front
The united front is an important way to ensure the success of the Party’s cause, and we must maintain commitment to it long term. We must uphold the bannerofpatriotism and socialism, strive to achieve great unity and solidarity, balancecommonality and diversity, and expand common ground and the convergenceofinterests. In handling its relationships with other Chinese political parties, theCommunist Party of China is guided by the principles of long-termcoexistence, mutual oversight, sincerity, and sharing the rough times and the smooth, anditsupports these parties in performing their duties in accordance withtherequirements of the Chinese socialist system for their participation in governance. We will fully implement the Party’s policies concerning ethnic groups, heighten public awareness of ethnic unity and progress, and create a strongsenseof community for the Chinese nation. We will encourage more exchanges andinteractions among different ethnic groups, helping themremain closelyunitedlike the seeds of a pomegranate that stick together, and work jointly for commonprosperity and development. We will fully implement the Party’s basic policy on religious affairs, upholdthe principle that religions in China must be Chinese in orientation andprovideactive guidance to religions so that they can adapt themselves to socialist society. We will encourage intellectuals who are not Party members and people belongingto new social groups to play the important roles they have in building socialismwith Chinese characteristics. We should form a new type of cordial andclean
36
relationship between government and business, promote healthy growthof thenon-public sector of the economy, and encourage those working in this sectortoachieve success. We will maintain extensive contacts with overseas Chinesenationals, returned Chinese and their relatives and unite themso that theycanjoinour endeavors to revitalize the Chinese nation. Comrades, The political system of socialism with Chinese characteristics is a great creationof the Communist Party of China and the Chinese people. We have everyconfidence that we can give full play to the strengths and distinctive featuresofChina’s socialist democracy, and make China’s contribution to the political
advancement of mankind. VII. Building Stronger Cultural Confidence and
Helping Socialist Culture to Flourish
Culture is a country and nation’s soul. Our country will thrive onlyif ourculture thrives, and our nation will be strong only if our culture is strong. Withoutfull confidence in our culture, without a rich and prosperous culture, the Chinesenation will not be able to rejuvenate itself. We must develop a socialist culturewithChinese characteristics, inspire the cultural creativity of our whole nation, anddevelop a great socialist culture in China. Socialist culture with Chinese characteristics is derived fromChina’s finetraditional culture, which was born of the Chinese civilization and nurturedovermore than 5,000 years; it has grown out of the revolutionary and advancedsocialist
culture that developed over the course of the Chinese people’s revolution, construction, and reform under the Party’s leadership; and it is rooted inthegreatpractice of socialism with Chinese characteristics. To develop socialist culture with Chinese characteristics means to developasocialist culture for our nation—a culture that is sound and people-oriented, thatembraces modernization, the world, and the future, and that bothpromotessocialist material wellbeing and raises socialist cultural-ethical standards. Indeveloping this culture, we must follow the guidance of Marxism, base our effortson Chinese culture, and take into account the realities of contemporary Chinaandthe conditions of the present era. We should ensure that this culture servesthepeople and serves socialism. We should follow the principle of letting a hundred
37
flowers bloom and a hundred schools of thought contend, and encourage creativetransformation and development, so as to add new luster to Chinese culture. 1. Holding firmly the leading position in ideological work
Ideology determines the direction a culture should take and the pathit shouldfollow as it develops. We must continue to adapt Marxismto China’s conditions, keep it up-to-date, and enhance its popular appeal. We will developsocialist
ideology that has the ability to unite and the power to inspire the peopletoembrace shared ideals, convictions, values, and moral standards. We will betterarm ourselves with theory and increase the public appeal of the Thought onSocialism with Chinese Characteristics for a New Era. We will work harder tostudy and develop Marxist theory, work faster to develop philosophy andsocial
sciences with Chinese characteristics, and develop new types of think tanks withdistinctive Chinese features. We will maintain the right tone in public communication, give prioritytoimproving means of communication and to creating new ones, and strengthenthepenetration, guidance, influence, and credibility of the media. We will providemore and better online content and put in place a systemfor integratedinternetmanagement to ensure a clean cyberspace. We will implement the systemofresponsibility for ideological work, and further consolidate our positions andimprove management in this field. We will distinguish between matters of political
principle, issues of understanding and thinking, and academic viewpoints, but wemust oppose and resist various erroneous views with a clear stand. 2. Cultivating and observing core socialist values
Core socialist values represent the contemporary Chinese spirit andareacrystallization of the values shared by all Chinese people. We will focus on fostering a new generation capable of shoulderingthemission of national rejuvenation; we will offer them better guidance, exposethemto practice, and provide institutional guarantees. We will drawon core socialist
values to guide education, efforts to raise cultural-ethical standards, andthecreation, production, and distribution of cultural and intellectual products, andseethat all areas of social development are imbued with these values andthat theybecome part of people’s thinking and behavior. To this end, we will encourageextensive public involvement, making our officials take the lead and startingwithfamilies and children. We will draw on China’s fine traditional culture, keep alive and developits
38
vision, concepts, values, and moral norms, and do so in a way that responds tothecall of our era. With this we will see that Chinese culture maintains its appeal andevolves with the times. 3. Raising intellectual and moral standards
When the people have ideals, their country will have strength, and their nationwill have a bright future. We will help our people raise their political awarenessand moral standards, foster appreciation of fine culture, and enhance social
etiquette and civility. We will undertake extensive public awareness activities to help the peopledevelop firm ideals and convictions, build their awareness of socialismwithChinese characteristics and the Chinese Dream, foster a Chinese ethos andareadiness to respond to the call of our times, strengthen the guidingroleofpatriotism, collectivism, and socialism, and see that the people develop anaccurateunderstanding of history, ethnicity, country, and culture. We will launchacivicmorality campaign to raise public ethical standards, and enhance workethics, family virtues, and personal integrity. We will encourage our people to striveforexcellence and to develop stronger virtues, respect the elderly, love families, andbe loyal to the country and the people. We will improve and strengthen our ideological and political work, andlaunchinitiatives to raise the public’s cultural-ethical standards. We will promotethespirit of science and make scientific knowledge widely attainable; we will worktosee the back of outdated social mores and to promote good andup-to-datepractices and trends; and we will resist the corrosive influence of backwardanddecadent culture. We will promote credibility building, institutionalize volunteerservices, and heighten people’s sense of social responsibility, awareness of rules, and sense of dedication. 4. Seeing socialist literature and art thrive
Socialist literature and art are for the people: Writers and artists shouldtakeapeople-centered approach and draw inspiration from everyday life andtheexperiences of the people to produce works that do justice to our times. Weencourage them to create fine works that are thought provoking andof ahighartistic standard, that reflect real life, and that extol our Party, our country, ourpeople, and our heroes. We will foster democracy in academic research and artistic pursuit, andencourage originality and experimentation with new approaches in the creationof
39
literature and art. We encourage the cultivation of fine tastes, style, anda senseofresponsibility, and reject vulgarity and kitsch in literary and artistic creation. Wewill strengthen the professional standards of artists and writers toseetheemergence of a large number of eminent figures who have moral integrityandoutstanding artistic appeal, and creators of inspiring works. 5. Promoting the development of cultural programs and industries
To meet the people’s new aspirations for a better life, we must providethemwith rich intellectual nourishment. We need to deepen structural reformof thecultural sector, improve the cultural management system, and acceleratetheestablishment of systems and mechanisms that put social benefits first whilepursuing economic returns. We will improve the public cultural service system, carry out public-interest cultural programs, and launch more popular cultural
activities. We will strengthen protection and utilization of cultural relics, andbetterpreserve and carry forward our cultural heritage. We will improve modern systems for cultural industries and markets, explorenew mechanisms for cultural production and operation, improve economic policyon the development of the cultural sector, and develop newforms of businessinthis sector. We will carry out extensive Fitness-for-All programs, speedupeffortsto build China into a country strong on sports, and make smooth preparationsforthe 2022 Beijing Winter Olympic Games and Paralympic Games. Wewill
strengthen people-to-people and cultural exchanges with other countries, givingprominence to Chinese culture while also drawing on other cultures. Wewill
improve our capacity for engaging in international communication so as totell
China’s stories well, present a true, multi-dimensional, and panoramic viewofChina, and enhance our country’s cultural soft power. Comrades, Since its founding, the Communist Party of China has actively guidedandpromoted China’s advanced culture while keeping China’s fine traditional culturealive and strong. Today, we Chinese Communists and the Chinese people shouldand can shoulder our new cultural mission, make cultural creations throughpractice, and promote cultural advancement along with the progress of history. VIII. Growing Better at Ensuring and Improving People’s WellbeingandStrengthening and Developing New Approaches to Social Governance
40
Everyone in the Party must keep firmly in mind that the nature of a political
party and of a government is determined by those whom they serve. Toleadthepeople to a better life is our Party’s abiding goal. We must put the people’sinterests above all else, see that the gains of reform and development benefit all ourpeople in a fair way, and strive to achieve shared prosperity for everyone. As we work to ensure and improve people’s wellbeing, we must focus onthemost pressing, most immediate issues that concern the people the most. We will doeverything in our capacity, and work away at issue by issue, year in andyear out. We will see that everyone performs their duties and shares in the benefits. Wewill
see basic needs are met, prioritize key areas, improve institutions, and guide publicexpectations. We will improve the public service system, ensure people’s basicquality of life, and keep up with people’s ever-growing needs for a better life. Wewill continue to promote social fairness and justice, develop effective social
governance, and maintain public order. With this we should see that our peoplewill always have a strong sense of fulfillment, happiness, and security. 1. Giving priority to developing education
Strengthening education is fundamental to our pursuit of national rejuvenation. We must give priority to education, further reform in education, speedupitsmodernization, and develop education that people are satisfied with. We shouldfully implement the Party’s education policy, foster virtue through education, enhance our students’ well-rounded development, promote fairness in education, and nurture a new generation of capable young people who have a goodandall-round moral, intellectual, physical, and aesthetical grounding andarewell-prepared to join the socialist cause. We will promote the coordinated development of compulsory educationinurban and rural areas, while giving particular attention to rural areas. Wewill
improve preschool education, special needs education, and online education, makesenior secondary education universally available, and strive to see that eachandevery child has fair access to good education. We will improve the system of vocational education and training, andpromoteintegration between industry and education and cooperation between enterprisesand colleges. We will move faster to build Chinese universities into world-classuniversities and develop world-class disciplines as we work to bring out thefull
potential of higher education. We will improve the systemof financial aidtostudents, and work to see that the vast majority of the new members of the urban
41
and rural labor force have received senior secondary education, and that moreandmore of them receive higher education. We will support the well-regulateddevelopment of private schools. We will strengthen the professional ethics andcompetence of teachers, and encourage public respect for educators andpublicsupport for education. We will improve continuing education, step upeffortstobuild a learning society, and promote the well-rounded development of all ourpeople. 2. Improving the quality of employment and raising incomes
Employment is pivotal to people’s wellbeing. We must give high prioritytoemployment and pursue a proactive employment policy, striving to achievefulleremployment and create better quality jobs. We will launch vocational skillstraining programs on a big scale, give particular attention to tackling structural
unemployment, and create more jobs by encouraging business startups. Wewill
provide extensive public employment services to open more channels for collegegraduates and other young people as well as migrant rural workers to findjobsand start their own businesses. We must remove institutional barriers that blockthe social mobility of labor and talent and ensure that every one of our peoplehasthe chance to pursue career through hard work. We will improve mechanismsforjoint discussion and mediation involving government, trade unions, andemployers in an effort to ensure harmonious labor relations. We will continue to follow the principle of distribution accordingtoone’swork while improving our institutions and mechanisms for distributionbasedonfactors of production, so as to make income distribution fairer and more orderly. We will encourage people to make their money through hard work andlegal
means. We will expand the size of the middle-income group, increase incomeforpeople on low incomes, adjust excessive incomes, and prohibit illicit income. Wewill work to see that individual incomes grow in step with economic development, and pay rises in tandem with increases in labor productivity. We will expandthechannels for people to make work-based earnings and property income. Wewill
see that government plays its function of adjusting redistribution, move fastertoensure equitable access to basic public services and narrow the gaps in incomes. 3. Strengthening the social security system
We will act on the policy requirements to help those most in need, tobuildatightly woven safety net, and to build the necessary institutions, as we worktodevelop a sustainable multi-tiered social security systemthat covers the entire
42
population in both urban and rural areas, with clearly defined rights andresponsibilities, and support that hits the right level. We will work toseethateveryone has access to social security. We will improve the basic pensionschemesfor urban employees and for rural and non-working urban residents, andquicklybring pension schemes under national unified management. We will improve the unified systems of basic medical insurance andseriousdisease insurance for rural and non-working urban residents, andimproveunemployment insurance and work-related injury insurance. We will establishaunified national platform for social security public services. We will promotethecoordinated development of the social assistance systems for urban andrural
residents, and improve the subsistence allowances system. We must adhere to the fundamental national policy of gender equality, andprotect the legitimate rights and interests of women and minors. We will improveour systems for social assistance, social welfare, charity, and entitledgroups’ benefits and services. We will improve the system for supporting andcaringforchildren, women, and elderly people left behind in rural areas. We will developprograms for people with disabilities and work to provide better rehabilitationservices for them. We must not forget that housing is for living in, not for speculation. Withthisin mind, we will move faster to put in place a housing systemthat ensures supplythrough multiple sources, provides housing support through multiple channels, and encourages both housing purchase and renting. This will make us betterplaced to meet the housing needs of all of our people. 4. Winning the battle against poverty
Seeing that poor people and poor areas will enter the moderately prosperoussociety together with the rest of the country is a solemn promise made by our Party. We should mobilize the energies of our whole Party, our whole country, andourwhole society, and continue to implement targeted poverty reductionandalleviation measures. We will operate on the basis of a working mechanismwhereby the central government makes overall plans, provincial-level
governments take overall responsibility, and city and county governments ensureimplementation; and we will strengthen the system for making heads of Partycommittees and governments at each level assume the overall responsibilityforpoverty alleviation. We will continue to advance poverty reduction drawing on the joint effortsof
43
government, society, and the market. We will pay particular attention tohelpingpeople increase confidence in their own ability to lift themselves out of povertyand see that they can access the education they need to do so. We will strengthencollaboration on poverty alleviation between the eastern and western regions; andwe will provide focused assistance to areas of extreme poverty. We must ensurethat by the year 2020, all rural residents living below the current povertylinehavebeen lifted out of poverty, and poverty is eliminated in all poor counties andregions. Poverty alleviation should reach those who truly need it anddelivergenuine outcomes. 5. Carrying out the Healthy China initiative
A healthy population is a key mark of a prosperous nation anda strongcountry. We will improve the national health policy, and ensure the deliveryofcomprehensive lifecycle health services for our people. We will deepenreformofthe medicine and healthcare system, establish distinctively Chinese systemsforproviding basic healthcare, medical insurance, and quality and efficient healthcareservices, and develop a sound modern hospital management system. We will improve community-level healthcare services, and strengthentheranks of general practitioners. We will put an end to the practices of hospitalsfunding their operations with profits from overpriced drugs, and improvethesystem for medicine supply. We will, with emphasis on prevention, carry out extensive patriotic healthcampaigns, promote healthy and positive lifestyles, and prevent and control majordiseases. We will initiate a food safety strategy to ensure that people have peaceofmind about what they’re putting on their plates. We will support both traditional
Chinese medicine and Western medicine, and ensure the preservationanddevelopment of traditional Chinese medicine. We will support the development ofprivate hospitals and health-related industries. We will work to ensure that our childbirth policy meshes withrelatedeconomic and social policies, and carry out research on the populationdevelopment strategy. As we respond proactively to population aging, wewill
adopt policies and foster a social environment in which senior citizens arerespected, cared for, and live happily in their later years. We will provideintegrated elderly care and medical services, and accelerate the development ofold-age programs and industries. 6. Establishing a social governance model based on collaboration,
44
participation, and common interests
We will step up institution building in social governance and improvethelaw-based social governance model under which Party committees exerciseleadership, government assumes responsibility, non-governmental actors provideassistance, and the public get involved. We will strengthen public participationand rule of law in social governance, and make such governance smarter andmorespecialized. We will improve mechanisms for preventing and defusing social tensions, andproperly handle problems among the people. We will promote safe development, and raise public awareness that life matters most and that safety comes first; wewill improve the public safety system and the responsibility systemfor workplacesafety; we will take resolute measures to prevent serious and major accidents, andbuild up our capacity for disaster prevention, mitigation, and relief. We will accelerate development of the crime prevention and control system, combat and punish in accordance with law all illegal and criminal activities suchaspornography, gambling, drug abuse, gang violence, kidnapping, andfraud, andprotect people’s personal rights, property rights, and right to dignity. Wewill
improve the system of public psychological services, and cultivate self-esteem, self-confidence, rationality, composure, and optimism among our people. Wewill
strengthen the system for community governance, shift the focus of social
governance to the community level, leverage the role of social organizations, andsee that government’s governance efforts on the one hand and society’s self-regulation and residents’ self-governance on the other reinforce each other. 7. Effectively safeguarding national security
National security is the cornerstone of peace and stability of our country, andsafeguarding it is in the fundamental interests of the Chinese people of all ethnicgroups. We will improve our national security strategy and policy, guaranteeChina’s political security, and take coordinated steps to ensure security inall areas. We will improve our national security system, strengthen rule of lawmeasurestoenhance national security, and enhance our capacity for forestalling andfendingoff security risks. We must rigorously protect against and take resolute measurestocombat all acts of infiltration, subversion, and sabotage, as well as violent andterrorist activities, ethnic separatist activities, and religious extremist activities. Wewill strengthen efforts to raise awareness of national security among all Partymembers and all the people, and create a strong synergy of the whole societyto
45
safeguard national security. Comrades, Meeting the fundamental interests of all our people is the ultimate yardstickfor judging all the work of our Party. The issues of concern to the people, betheybig or small, should be handled with utmost care and attention. We must start withaddressing issues of public concern, start with delivering the outcomes that satisfypublic needs, and work without rest to lead our people in pursuing a better life. IX. Speeding up Reform of the System for Developing an Ecological
Civilization, and Building a Beautiful China
Man and nature form a community of life; we, as human beings, must respect
nature, follow its ways, and protect it. Only by observing the laws of naturecanmankind avoid costly blunders in its exploitation. Any harmwe inflict onnaturewill eventually return to haunt us. This is a reality we have to face. The modernization that we pursue is one characterized by harmoniouscoexistence between man and nature. In addition to creating more material andcultural wealth to meet people’s ever-increasing needs for a better life, weneedalso to provide more quality ecological goods to meet people’s ever-growingdemands for a beautiful environment. We should, acting on the principlesofprioritizing resource conservation and environmental protection and lettingnaturerestore itself, develop spatial layouts, industrial structures, and ways of workandlife that help conserve resources and protect the environment. With this, wecanrestore the serenity, harmony, and beauty of nature. 1. Promoting green development
We will step up efforts to establish a legal and policy framework that promotesgreen production and consumption, and promote a sound economic structurethatfacilitates green, low-carbon, and circular development. We will createamarket-based system for green technology innovation, develop green finance, andspur the development of energy-saving and environmental protection industriesaswell as clean production and clean energy industries. We will promotearevolution in energy production and consumption, and build an energy sector thatis clean, low-carbon, safe, and efficient. We will encourage conservation across the board and promote recycling, takeaction to get everyone conserving water, cut consumption of energy andmaterials,
46
and establish linkages between the circular use of resources and materialsinindustrial production and in everyday life. We encourage simple, moderate, green, and low-carbon ways of life, and oppose extravagance and excessive consumption. We will launch initiatives to make Party and government offices do better whenitcomes to conservation, and develop eco-friendly families, schools, communities, and transport services. 2. Solving prominent environmental problems
We will get everyone involved in improving the environment andaddressenvironmental issues at the root. We will continue our campaign to prevent andcontrol air pollution to make our skies blue again. We will speed up preventionand control of water pollution, and take comprehensive measures to improveriverbasins and offshore areas. We will strengthen the control of soil pollutionandtherestoration of polluted soil, intensify the prevention and control of agricultural
pollution from non-point sources, and take measures to improve rural livingenvironments. We will improve the treatment of solid waste and garbage. We will enforce stricter pollutants discharge standards and see toit thatpolluters are held accountable. We will improve our systems for credibilityassessment based on environmental protection performance, for mandatoryreleaseof environmental information, and for imposing severe punishment forenvironmental violations. We will establish an environmental governance systemin which government takes the lead, enterprises assume main responsibility, andsocial organizations and the public also participate. We will get activelyinvolvedin global environmental governance and fulfill our commitments onemissionsreduction. 3. Intensifying the protection of ecosystems
We will carry out major projects to protect and restore key ecosystems, improvethe system of shields for ecological security, and develop ecological corridors andbiodiversity protection networks, so as to strengthen the quality andstabilityofour ecosystems. We will complete work on drawing redlines for protectingtheecosystems, designating permanent basic cropland, and delineating boundariesforurban development. We will promote afforestation, take comprehensive steps tocontrol
desertification, stony deserts, and soil erosion, strengthen wetland conservationand restoration, and better prevent and control geological disasters. Wewill
improve the system for protecting natural forests, and turn more marginal
47
farmland into forests and grasslands. We will rigorously protect farmlandandexpand trials in crop rotation and keeping land fallow. We will improve systemsfor regeneration of croplands, grasslands, forests, rivers, and lakes, andset updiversified market-based mechanisms for ecological compensation. 4. Reforming the environmental regulation system
We will strengthen overall planning, organization, and leadership for buildingan ecological civilization. We will establish regulatory agencies to managestate-owned natural resource assets and monitor natural ecosystems, andimproveenvironmental management systems. These agencies will, in a unifiedway, perform the duties of the owner of public-owned natural resource assets, the dutiesof regulating the use of all territorial space and protecting andrestoringecosystems, and the duties of monitoring the discharge of all pollutants inurbanand rural areas and conducting administrative law enforcement. We will establish systems for developing and protecting territorial space, improve supporting policies on functional zones, and develop a nature reservessystem composed mainly of national parks. We will take tough steps to stopandpunish all activities that damage the environment. Comrades, What we are doing today to build an ecological civilization will benefit
generations to come. We should have a strong commitment to socialist ecological
civilization and work to develop a new model of modernization withhumansdeveloping in harmony with nature. We must do our generation’s share toprotectthe environment. X. Staying Committed to the Chinese Path of Building Strong ArmedForcesandFully Advancing the Modernization of National Defense and the MilitaryWe have reached a new historical starting point in strengtheningnational
defense and the armed forces. Confronted with profound changes in our national
security environment and responding to the demands of the day for a strongcountry with a strong military, we must fully implement the Party’s thinkingonstrengthening the military for the new era and the military strategyfor newconditions, build a powerful and modernized army, navy, air force, rocket force, and strategic support force, develop strong and efficient joint operations
48
commanding institutions for theater commands, and create a moderncombat
system with distinctive Chinese characteristics. Our armed forces must beuptoshouldering the missions and tasks of the new era entrusted to themby thePartyand the people. We will adapt to the trend of a new global military revolution andtonational
security needs; we will upgrade our military capabilities, and see that, bytheyear2020, mechanization is basically achieved, IT application has come a long way, andstrategic capabilities have seen a big improvement. In step with our country’smodernization process, we will modernize our military across the boardintermsof theory, organizational structure, service personnel, and weaponry. Wewill
make it our mission to see that by 2035, the modernization of our national defenseand our forces is basically completed; and that by the mid-21st centuryourpeople’s armed forces have been fully transformed into world-class forces. We will strengthen Party building in the military. We will launchactivitiesunder the theme of “passing on the traditions of revolution; stepping uptothetaskof making the military strong.” We will move forward with the development of themilitary honors system. We will train the revolutionary officers and soldiers of anew era with faith, ability, courage, and integrity, and see that our forces foreverpreserve their nature, purpose, and character as the forces of the people. We will continue to deepen national defense and military reform. Wewill
further the reform of major policy systems, including the career officers system, thesystem for posting civilian personnel in the military, and the militaryservicesystem. We will push ahead with transformation of military management, andimprove and develop our distinctively Chinese socialist military institutions. Wemust keep it firm in our minds that technology is the core combat capability, encourage innovations in major technologies, and conduct innovationsindependently. We will strengthen the system for training military personnel, andmake our people’s forces more innovative. We will govern the military withstrictdiscipline in every respect, push for a fundamental transformation in the wayourmilitary is run, and strengthen the role of rule of law in enhancing national defenseand military capabilities. A military is built to fight. Our military must regard combat capabilityasthecriterion to meet in all its work and focus on how to win when it is calledon. Wewill take solid steps to ensure military preparedness for all strategic directions, andmake progress in combat readiness in both traditional and newsecurity fields. We
49
will develop new combat forces and support forces, conduct militarytrainingunder combat conditions, strengthen the application of military strength, speedupdevelopment of intelligent military, and improve combat capabilities for jointoperations based on the network information system and the ability to fight undermulti-dimensional conditions. This will enable us to effectively shape our militaryposture, manage crises, and deter and win wars. We should ensure that efforts to make our country prosperous andeffortstomake our military strong go hand in hand. We will strengthen unifiedleadership, top-level design, reform, and innovation. We will speed up implementationofmajor projects, deepen reform of defense-related science, technology, andindustry, achieve greater military-civilian integration, and build integratednational
strategies and strategic capabilities. We will improve our national defensemobilization system, and build a strong, well-structured, and modernborderdefense, coastal defense, and air defense. We will establish an administrationforveterans; we will protect the legitimate rights and interests of military personnel
and their families; and we will make military service an occupation that enjoyspublic respect. We will carry out further reforms to build a modernizedarmedpolice force. Comrades, Our military is the people’s military, and our national defense is theresponsibility of every one of us. We must raise public awareness about theimportance of national defense and strengthen unity between the government andthe military and between the people and the military. Let us work together tocreate a mighty force for realizing the Chinese Dream and the dreamof buildingapowerful military. XI. Upholding “One Country, Two Systems” and
Moving toward National Reunification
Since Hong Kong and Macao’s return to the motherland, the practice of “onecountry, two systems” in both regions has been a resounding success. The policyof“one country, two systems” has proved to be the best solution to the questionsofHong Kong and Macao, left by history, and the best institutional guarantee for thelong-term prosperity and stability of Hong Kong and Macao after their return. To maintain long-term prosperity and stability in Hong Kong and Macao, it is
50
imperative to fully and faithfully implement the policies of “one country, twosystems,” “the people of Hong Kong governing Hong Kong,” “the peopleofMacao governing Macao,” and a high degree of autonomy for both regions. It isimperative too, to act in strict compliance with China’s Constitution andthebasiclaws of the two special administrative regions, and to improve the systems andmechanisms for enforcing the basic laws. We will continue to support the governments and chief executives of bothregions in pursuing the following endeavors: exercising law-based governance, uniting and leading the people of all sectors in an active and concertedeffort topromote development and harmony, ensuring and improving people’s wellbeing, taking well-ordered steps to advance democracy, maintaining lawandorder, andfulfilling the constitutional responsibility of safeguarding China’s sovereignty, security, and development interests. The development of Hong Kong and Macao is closely tied up with that of themainland. We will continue to support Hong Kong and Macao in integratingtheirown development into the overall development of the country. We will givepriority to the development of the Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macao Greater BayArea, cooperation between Guangdong, Hong Kong, and Macao, andregional
cooperation in the pan-Pearl River Delta, thus fully advancing mutually beneficial
cooperation between the mainland and the two regions. We will formulateandimprove policies and measures to make it more convenient for people fromHongKong and Macao to develop careers on the mainland. We will remain committed to the policy for the Hong Kong people togovernHong Kong and the Macao people to govern Macao, with patriots playingtheprincipal role. We will develop and strengthen the ranks of patriots who lovebothour country and their regions, and foster greater patriotismand a stronger senseofnational identity among the people in Hong Kong and Macao. Withthis, ourcompatriots in Hong Kong and Macao will share both the historic responsibilityofnational rejuvenation and the pride of a strong and prosperous China. Resolving the Taiwan question to realize China’s complete reunificationistheshared aspiration of all Chinese people, and is in the fundamental interests of theChinese nation. We must uphold the principles of “peaceful reunification”and“one country, two systems,” work for the peaceful development of cross-Straitsrelations, and advance the process toward the peaceful reunification of China. The one-China principle is the political foundation of cross-Straits relations.
51
The 1992 Consensus embodies the one-China principle and defines thefundamental nature of cross-Straits relations; it thus holds the key to the peaceful
development of relations between the two sides of the Taiwan Straits. Recognizethe historical fact of the 1992 Consensus and that the two sides both belongtooneChina, and then our two sides can conduct dialogue to address through discussionthe concerns of the people of both sides, and no political party or groupinTaiwanwill have any difficulty conducting exchanges with the mainland. Blood is thicker than water. People on both sides of the Taiwan Straitsarebrothers and sisters; we share the bond of kinship. Guided by the convictionthatwe are all of the same family, we respect the current social systemandwayof lifein Taiwan and are ready to share the development opportunities on the mainlandwith our Taiwan compatriots first. We will expand cross-Straits economicandcultural exchanges and cooperation for mutual benefits. We will ensure that over time, people from Taiwan will enjoy thesametreatment as local people when they pursue their studies, start businesses, seekjobs, or live on the mainland, thus improving the wellbeing of Taiwan compatriots. We will encourage people from both sides to work together to promote Chineseculture and forge closer bonds between them. We stand firm in safeguarding China’s sovereignty and territorial integrity, and will never allow the historical tragedy of national division to repeat itself. Anyseparatist activity is certain to meet with the resolute opposition of the Chinesepeople. We have the resolve, the confidence, and the ability to defeat separatistattempts for “Taiwan independence” in any form. We will never allowanyone, any organization, or any political party, at any time or in any form, to separateanypart of Chinese territory from China!
Comrades, Realizing the rejuvenation of the Chinese nation is a dreamsharedbyall of usas Chinese. We remain firm in our conviction that, as long as all the sons anddaughters of the Chinese nation, including our compatriots in Hong Kong, Macao, and Taiwan, follow the tide of history, work together for the greater national
interests, and keep our nation’s destiny firmly in our own hands, we will, withoutdoubt, be able to achieve the great rejuvenation of the Chinese nation. XII. Following a Path of Peaceful Development and Working toBuild a Community with a Shared Future for Mankind
52
The Communist Party of China strives for both the wellbeing of the Chinesepeople and human progress. To make new and greater contributions for mankindis our Party’s abiding mission. China will continue to hold high the banner of peace, development, cooperation, and mutual benefit and uphold its fundamental foreign policygoal ofpreserving world peace and promoting common development. China remains firmin its commitment to strengthening friendship and cooperation withothercountries on the basis of the Five Principles of Peaceful Coexistence,1 andtoforging a new form of international relations featuring mutual respect, fairness,
justice, and win-win cooperation. The world is undergoing major developments, transformation, andadjustment, but peace and development remain the call of our day. The trends of global
multi-polarity, economic globalization, IT application, and cultural diversityaresurging forward; changes in the global governance systemand the international
order are speeding up; countries are becoming increasingly interconnectedandinterdependent; relative international forces are becoming more balanced; andpeace and development remain irreversible trends. And yet, as a world we face growing uncertainties and destabilizingfactors. Global economic growth lacks energy; the gap between rich and poor continuestowiden; hotspot issues arise often in some regions; and unconventional securitythreats like terrorism, cyber-insecurity, major infectious diseases, andclimatechange continue to spread. As human beings we have many common challengestoface.Our world is full of both hope and challenges. We should not give uponourdreams because the reality around us is too complicated; we shouldnot stoppursuing our ideals because they seem out of our reach. No country canaddressalone the many challenges facing mankind; no country can afford to retreat intoself-isolation. We call on the people of all countries to work together to build a communitywith a shared future for mankind, to build an open, inclusive, clean, andbeautiful
world that enjoys lasting peace, universal security, and common prosperity. We1 The Five Principles of Peaceful Coexistence are: mutual respect for sovereignty and territorial integrity, mutual nonaggression, mutual noninterference in each other’s internal affairs, equality and mutual benefit, and peaceful coexistence.
53
should respect each other, discuss issues as equals, resolutely reject the ColdWarmentality and power politics, and take a new approach to developing state-to-staterelations with communication, not confrontation, and with partnership, not
alliance. We should commit to settling disputes through dialogue andresolvingdifferences through discussion, coordinate responses to traditional andnon-traditional threats, and oppose terrorism in all its forms. We should stick together through thick and thin, promote tradeandinvestment liberalization and facilitation, and make economic globalizationmoreopen, inclusive, and balanced so that its benefits are shared by all. We shouldrespect the diversity of civilizations. In handling relations among civilizations, letus replace estrangement with exchange, clashes with mutual learning, andsuperiority with coexistence. We should be good friends to the environment, cooperate to tackle climate change, and protect our planet for the sake of humansurvival. China remains firm in pursuing an independent foreign policy of peace. Werespect the right of the people of all countries to choose their own developmentpath. We endeavor to uphold international fairness and justice, and opposeactsthat impose one’s will on others or interfere in the internal affairs of others as well
as the practice of the strong bullying the weak. China will never pursue development at the expense of others’ interests, butnor will China ever give up its legitimate rights and interests. No one shouldexpect us to swallow anything that undermines our interests. China pursuesanational defense policy that is in nature defensive. China’s development doesnotpose a threat to any other country. No matter what stage of development it reaches, China will never seek hegemony or engage in expansion. China has actively developed global partnerships and expandedtheconvergence of interests with other countries. China will promote coordinationand cooperation with other major countries and work to build a frameworkformajor country relations featuring overall stability and balanced development. China will deepen relations with its neighbors in accordance with the principleofamity, sincerity, mutual benefit, and inclusiveness and the policy of forgingfriendship and partnership with its neighbors. China will, guided by the principleof upholding justice while pursuing shared interests and the principle of sincerity, real results, affinity, and good faith, work to strengthen solidarity and cooperationwith other developing countries. We will strengthen exchanges and cooperation
54
with the political parties and organizations of other countries, andencouragepeople’s congresses, CPPCC committees, the military, local governments, andpeople’s organizations to engage in exchanges with other countries. China adheres to the fundamental national policy of opening up andpursuesdevelopment with its doors open wide. China will actively promote international
cooperation through the Belt and Road Initiative. In doing so, we hope toachievepolicy, infrastructure, trade, financial, and people-to-people connectivityandthusbuild a new platform for international cooperation to create newdrivers of shareddevelopment. China will increase assistance to other developing countries, especiallytheleast developed countries, and do its part to reduce the North-South developmentgap. China will support multilateral trade regimes and work to facilitatetheestablishment of free trade areas and build an open world economy. China follows the principle of achieving shared growth through discussionand collaboration in engaging in global governance. China stands for democracyininternational relations and the equality of all countries, big or small, strongorweak, rich or poor. China supports the United Nations in playing an active roleininternational affairs, and supports the efforts of other developing countriestoincrease their representation and strengthen their voice in international affairs. China will continue to play its part as a major and responsible country, takeanactive part in reforming and developing the global governance system, andkeepcontributing Chinese wisdom and strength to global governance. Comrades, The future of the world rests in the hands of the people of all countries; thefuture of mankind hinges on the choices they make. We, the Chinese, are readytowork with the people of all other countries to build a community witha sharedfuture for mankind and create a bright tomorrow for all of us. XIII. Exercising Strict Governance over the Party and
Improving the Party’s Ability to Govern and Lead
As socialism with Chinese characteristics has entered a newera, our Partymust get a new look and make new accomplishments. As the saying goes, it takesagood blacksmith to make good steel. For the Party to unite the people andlead
55
them in carrying out our great struggle, advancing our great cause, andrealizingour great dream, we must unwaveringly uphold and improve Party leadershipand make the Party still stronger. Ensuring Party self-governance is exercised fully and strictly is a journeytowhich there’s no end. The future of a political party or a government is determinedby whether it enjoys public support. We must guard against and correct withresolve the practices the people oppose and resent. The whole Partymust besoberly aware that the governance environment our Party faces is complex, andthat so too are the factors undermining the Party’s advanced nature andpurity;
prominent problems of impurity in thinking, organization, and conduct intheParty have not been solved root and branch. We must fully recognize the long-term and complex nature of thetestsconfronting the Party as they relate to governance, reformand openingup, themarket economy, and the external environment. We must also fully recognizetheintensity and severity of the dangers of a lack of drive, incompetence, disengagement from the people, inaction, and corruption. So we must focusonsolving problems, maintain strategic resolve, and ensure strict Partyself-governance. The general requirements for Party building for the new era are:  Uphold and strengthen overall Party leadership and ensure that thePartyexercises effective self-supervision and practices strict self-governanceinevery respect;  Take strengthening the Party’s long-term governance capacityanditsadvanced nature and purity as the main thrust; take enhancing the Party’spolitical building as the overarching principle; take holding dear theParty’s ideals, convictions, and purpose as the underpinning; andtakeharnessing the whole Party’s enthusiasm, initiative, and creativityasthefocus of efforts;  Make all-round efforts to see the Party’s political building enhanced, itstheory strengthened, its organizations consolidated, its conduct improved, and its discipline enforced, with institution building incorporatedintoevery aspect of Party building;  Step up efforts to combat corruption and continue to improve the efficacyof Party building;  Build the Party into a vibrant Marxist governing party that is always at the
56
forefront of the times, enjoys the wholehearted support of the people, hasthe courage to reform itself, and is able to withstand all tests. 1. Putting the Party’s political building first
Taking a clear political stand is the fundamental requirement our Partymustmeet as a Marxist party. The Party’s political building is of fundamental
importance to the Party as it determines the direction and efficacy of Partybuilding. The primary task of political Party building is to ensure that the wholePartyobeys the Central Committee and upholds its authority and centralized, unifiedleadership. All Party members must closely follow the Party’s political line, strictlyobserve its political discipline and rules, and closely align themselves withtheCentral Committee in terms of political stance, direction, principle, and path. Every member of the Party must hold the Party Constitution in great reverence, act in strict accordance with the code of conduct for intraparty political life undernew circumstances, and make intraparty activities more politically oriented, up-to-date, principled, and effective. We must guard against the rules of businessdealings eroding intraparty conduct, and foster a healthy political atmosphereofintegrity within the Party. We must improve and implement the systems of democratic centralism, andpractice both democracy-based centralism and centralism-guided democracy. Thismeans we should both give full play to democracy and practice centralismonthisbasis. We must foster values like loyalty, honesty, impartiality, adherence tofact, andintegrity; guard against and oppose self-centered behavior, decentralism, behaviorin disregard of the rules, a silo mentality, unprincipled nice-guyism, andsectarianism, factionalism, and patronage. We must resolutelyopposedouble-dealing and duplicity. All Party members, especially high-ranking officials, must strengthentheirParty consciousness, political awareness, and political ability. We must regardit asour fundamental political responsibility to be loyal to the Party, share the Party’sconcerns, fulfill our obligations to the Party, and work for the people’s wellbeing, and forever preserve the political character of Communists. 2. Arming the whole Party with the Thought on SocialismwithChinese
57
Characteristics for a New Era
Theory is fundamental to Party building. Our revolutionary ideals soar beyondthe skies. The noble ideal of Communism and the shared ideal of socialismwithChinese characteristics are our source of strength and political soul as ChineseCommunists; they also form the theoretical foundation of Party solidarityandunity. Our top priority in building the Party through theory is to stay true toourideals and convictions. We should make all Party members keep firmly inmindtheParty’s purpose, have unwavering convictions as Communists, resolvethefundamental issue of the worldview, outlook on life, and values we shouldembrace, and maintain deep belief in and faithfully practice Communismandsocialism with Chinese characteristics. We will foster a Marxist style of learning, and make it regular practice andaninstitutionalized requirement for all Party members to gain a good commandof theParty Constitution, Party regulations, and related major policy addresses andtomeet Party standards. We will launch a campaign on the theme of “stayingtruetoour founding mission” to enable all Party members, especially officials at andabove the county and director level, to arm themselves with the Party’s newtheories and become more purposeful in working tirelessly to accomplishtheParty’s historic mission in the new era. 3. Training a contingent of competent and professional officials
Party officials are a central pillar of strength for the cause of our Partyandcountry. We must adhere to the principle of the Party supervising officials; selectofficials on the basis of both integrity and ability, with priority given to integrity, and on the basis of merit regardless of background; and ensure that those whoarededicated, impartial, and upright should be appointed. We must implement inearnest the criteria for evaluating good officials. In selecting and appointing officials, we must adopt the right approach, withemphasis on political performance. We will promote and put in important
positions those Party officials who do well according to the following criteria: theymaintain political integrity, think in terms of the big picture, followthe leadershipcore, and keep in alignment with the central Party leadership; they havefull
confidence in the path, theory, system, and culture of socialismwithChinesecharacteristics; they uphold the authority of the Central Committee andfaithfullyfollow the Party’s theories, lines, principles, and policies; and they are loyal tothe
58
Party, have moral integrity, and demonstrate a keen sense of responsibility. Wewill strengthen leadership teams at all levels by appointing competent officials. We will take seriously the development of specialized expertiseandprofessionalism, and enhance Party officials’ ability to meet the requirementsofdeveloping socialism with Chinese characteristics in the newera. We will workharder to identify promising young officials and get them well preparedfor futurejobs. We will focus on their practical training in local communities, in workonthefrontline, and in areas where conditions are harsh, and work to produce a constant
stream of outstanding young officials who have passed the test of practice. Wewill
ensure coordinated training and selection of female officials, officials fromethnicminorities, and non-Party officials. We will ensure that retired officials arewell
taken care of. We will be both strict and caring, and place equal emphasis on providingincentives and imposing constraints. We will improve the performance assessmentand evaluation system for officials, institute incentive mechanisms andmechanisms to allow for and address errors, and take a clear stand in supportingofficials who are willing to assume responsibility, who take a down-to-earthapproach in their work, and who do not seek personal gain. Party organizationsat
every level should care about officials working at the primary level, andhelpsolvethe problems and difficulties they encounter. People with talent are a strategic resource for China as it endeavors toachievenational rejuvenation and stay ahead in international competition. We must followthe principle of the Party exercising leadership over personnel, assemble thebestminds across the land and draw fully on their expertise, and step upeffortstomake China a talent-strong country. We will pursue a more proactive, open, and effective policy ontrainingcompetent professionals. We should value people with talent, be goodat
identifying talent, have the foresight to employ them, be earnest to keepthem, andwelcome them into our ranks. This will better enable us to attract bright peoplefrom both within and outside the Party and both in China and abroad to joinusinpursuing the great endeavor of the Party and the people. We will encourageandguide people with talent to work in remote poor areas, border areas withmainlyethnic minority populations, and old revolutionary base areas, as well asincommunities and on the frontlines. We will work to foster a positive environmentin which everyone wants, strives, and is able to excel themselves, andcandofull
59
justice to their talents. With this, we aim to see that in every field the creativityoftalent is given great expression and their ingenuity and expertise flowfreely. 4. Strengthening primary-level Party organizations
Primary-level Party organizations do the groundwork to ensure the Party’slines, principles, policies, decisions, and plans are implemented. We will work to ensure that primary-level Party organizations in enterprises, villages, Party and government departments, schools, research institutes, sub-districts, communities, and social organizations play a key roleincommunicating the Party’s propositions, carrying out the Party’s decisions, overseeing community-level social governance, uniting and mobilizing the people, and promoting reform and development. In doing so, we will focus on improvingthe organizational capability of primary-level Party organizations and give priorityto enhancing their political functions. Party branches should fulfill their responsibilities for directly guiding, managing, and overseeing their members and for organizing, communicatingwith, uniting, and serving the people. They should encourage their members toplayanexemplary role. We must practice the system of holding Party branch general meetings, meetings of Party branch committees, Party group meetings, and Partylectures. We will develop new ways for setting up primary-level Party organizations andfor them to carry out their activities, strengthen the training of their heads, andexpand their reach. We must work harder to address the problems that someprimary-level Party organizations are weak, ineffective, and marginalized. Wewill
expand intraparty democracy at the primary level, make Party affairs moretransparent, and ensure channels are open for Party members to participateinParty affairs, oversee Party organizations and officials, and submit opinions andsuggestions to the Party organization at the next level up. We will do more to recruit new Party members from among industrial workers, young people working in agriculture, well-educated groups, and people workingin non-public economic entities and social organizations. We will givemoreincentives, solicitude, and assistance to Party members. We will makeourguidance and management of Party members better targeted and more effective, and handle Party members that don’t meet the mark in a prudent and orderlyway. 5. Working ceaselessly to improve Party conduct and enforce Party disciplineOur Party comes from the people, has its roots among the people, andis
60
dedicated to serving the people. Once the Party becomes disengagedfromthepeople, it will lose its vitality. In improving Party conduct, we must focusonmaintaining the Party’s close bond with the people, keep themfirmly inmind, develop a closer affinity with them, and keep working to foster stronger publicsupport for the Party’s governance. We must earnestly address all issues thepeople are strongly concerned about, and resolutely correct any behavior thatundermines the people’s interests. Our Party officials should lead by example in consolidating and buildingonthe advances made in implementing the central Party leadership’s eight-pointdecision on improving Party and government conduct. We should continuetoaddress the practice of formalities for formalities’ sake, bureaucratism, hedonism, and extravagance, and oppose mindsets and acts of privilege seeking. Wewill
focus on strengthening the enforcement of political and organizational discipline, and use this to prompt stricter observance of discipline on upholding integrity, oninteracting with the people, and regarding work and life. We will continue to carry out criticism and self-criticismin keepingwiththeprinciple of learning from mistakes to prevent recurrence and treating the illnesstosave the patient. We will conduct four forms of oversight over disciplinecompliance,1
identify problems early and correct them while they are nascent. Party organizations with the power to supervise officials will be givencorresponding power to take disciplinary action as called for, and accountabilityfor overseeing discipline compliance will be tightened up on. We will raisePartymembers’ awareness of discipline and strengthen discipline enforcement, anddemand that Party members and officials hold discipline in awe andrespect, donot cross the line, and become used to working and living under oversight andconstraints. 6. Securing a sweeping victory in the fight against corruption
The people resent corruption most; and corruption is the greatest threat ourParty faces. We must have the resolve and tenacity to persevere inthenever-ending fight against corruption. Only by intensifying efforts to address boththe symptoms and root causes of corruption—by making sure that officialsare1 The four forms are: 1) Criticism and self-criticism activities and oral and written inquiries which are tobe conducted regularly, to ensure that those who have committed minor misconduct are made to “reddenandsweat”; 2) Light penalties and minor organizational adjustments to official positions, which are to be appliedinthe majority of cases; 3) Heavy penalties and major adjustments to official positions, which are to be appliedina small number of cases; and 4) Investigation and prosecution, which are to be undertaken in a very small number of cases involving serious violations of discipline and suspected criminal activity.
61
honest, government is clean, and political affairs are handled with integrity—canwe avoid history’s cycle of rise and fall and ensure the long-termstabilityof theParty and the country. Currently, the fight against corruption remains grave and complex; wemust
remain as firm as a rock in our resolve to build on the overwhelming momentumand secure a sweeping victory. We will continue to see that there are nono-gozones, no ground is left unturned, and no tolerance is shown for corruption. Wewill impose tight constraints, maintain a tough stance and a long-termdeterrence, punish both those who take bribes and those who offer them, and prevent interestgroups from arising within the Party. We will institute a system of disciplinary inspection for city and countylevel
Party committees in an intensified effort to address corruption that occurs onthepeople’s doorsteps. Wherever offenders may flee, they will be brought backandbrought to justice. We will work for the adoption of national anti-corruptionlegislation and create a corruption reporting platform that covers both disciplinaryinspection commissions and supervision agencies. We will strengthen deterrence so officials don’t dare to, strengthen the cageofinstitutions so they’re unable to, and strengthen their vigilance so theyhavenodesire to commit acts of corruption. Our political environment will, throughtireless efforts, like seas fallen calm and rivers running clear, be clean andfreeofcorruption. 7. Improving Party and state oversight systems
To improve the Party’s ability to purify itself, it is essential that we strengthenParty self-supervision and subject ourselves to public oversight. We muststrengthen checks on and oversight over the exercise of power, and ensurethatpower is exercised under public oversight, in broad daylight, andinaninstitutional cage. We will strengthen top-down organizational oversight, improvebottom-up democratic oversight, practice peer oversight, and tightenregularsupervision over Party members in positions of leadership. We will intensifypolitical inspection to identify problems and ensure that deterrence works; wewill
establish an oversight network that facilitates coordination in disciplinaryinspections conducted at different levels. We will deepen reform of the national supervision system, conduct trialsthroughout the country, and establish supervisory commissions at the national, provincial, prefectural, and county levels, which work together with the Party’s
62
disciplinary inspection commissions as one office while keeping their ownidentity. This will ensure that supervision covers everyone working in the public sector whoexercises public power. A national supervision law will be formulated. Supervisory commissions will be given responsibilities, powers, andmeansofinvestigation in accordance with law. The practice of shuanggui1 will be replacedby detention. We will reform the auditing management system and improve the statisticssystem. We will establish an authoritative, efficient oversight systemwithcomplete coverage under the Party’s unified command; and integrate intrapartyoversight with oversight by state organs, democratic oversight, judicial oversight, public oversight, and oversight through public opinion. All this will createapowerful synergy for conducting oversight. 8. Strengthening every dimension of our ability for governance
To lead a large socialist country of more than 1.3 billion people, our Partymust
be both politically strong and highly competent. We should be good at learning. We will foster a strong atmosphere of learningand practicing in the Party, and build our Party into a Marxist learning party. Wewill nurture a love of learning in our people. We should be good at exercising political leadership. We shouldadopt astrategic perspective, and develop creative thinking and a dialectical approachtothinking; we should think in terms of the rule of law, and think about worst-casescenarios. We should formulate sound Party lines, principles, and policies andresolutely implement them, ensuring that the Party exercises overall leadershipand coordinates work in all areas. We should be good reformers and pioneers. We should be enterprising, workcreatively in light of actual conditions, and adeptly apply information technology, including the internet, in our work. We should be good at promoting sound development. We shouldeffectivelyput into practice the new development philosophy, and continue to breaknewground in development. We should be good at exercising law-based governance. We will act morequickly to put in place a system of Party rules and regulations that coversall
aspects of Party leadership and Party building, and strengthen and improveParty1 A form of intraparty disciplinary action that requires a Party member under investigation to cooperatewith questioning at a designated place and a designated time.
63
leadership over bodies of state power. We should be good at engaging with the people. We will develop newsystems, mechanisms, ways, and means for this work. We will urge trade unions, ChineseCommunist Youth League organizations, women’s federations, and other people’sorganizations to strengthen their political consciousness, become more advanced, and better represent the people; to play their role as bridges linking the Partywiththe people; and to organize and motivate the people to follow the Party. We should be good at implementing policy. We should be open andfrank, takeeffective measures to address real issues, and seek good outcomes. We shouldbeready both to act resolutely and swiftly and to make sustained efforts totackletough issues head-on. We should have the perseverance to hammer awayuntil atask is done, and make concrete, meticulous, and effective efforts in all our work. We should be good at managing risks. We will improve risk preventionandcontrol mechanisms in all areas, skillfully handle various complex issues, overcome all difficulties and obstacles that we meet on our way, and keepafirmhold on the initiative in our work. Comrades, A great cause calls for leadership of a strong party. As long as our Partykeepsitself competent and strong, always remains true to the people’s aspirationandworks in concert with the people, we can and will navigate the great shipbearingthe great dream of the Chinese people to conquer the waves andreachourdestination. Comrades, The Chinese nation is a great nation; it has been through hardships andadversity but remains indomitable. The Chinese people are a great people; theyareindustrious and brave; and they never pause in the pursuit of progress. TheCommunist Party of China is a great party; it has the courage to fight andthemettle to win. The wheels of history roll on; the tides of the times are vast andmighty. History looks kindly on those with resolve, with drive and ambition, andwithplenty of guts; it won’t wait for the hesitant, the apathetic, or those shyof achallenge. All of us in the Party must work hard and live simply, guard against arrogance
64
and impetuosity; and lose no time in progressing along the long march of thenewera.We must conscientiously safeguard the solidarity and unity of the Party, maintain the Party’s deep bond with the people, and strengthen the great unityofthe Chinese people of all ethnic groups and the great unity of all the sons anddaughters of the Chinese nation at home and abroad. We must unite all the forcesthat can be united and work as one to progress toward the brilliant futureofnational rejuvenation. A nation will prosper only when its young people thrive; a country will befull
of hope and have a great tomorrow only when its younger generations have ideals, ability, and a strong sense of responsibility. The Chinese Dreamis a dreamabouthistory, the present, and the future. It is a dream of our generation, but evenmoreso, a dream of the younger generations. The Chinese Dreamof national
rejuvenation will be realized ultimately through the endeavors of youngpeople, generation by generation. All of us in the Party should care about young people and set the stageforthem to excel. To all our young people, you should have firmideals andconvictions, aim high, and have your feet firmly on the ground. You shouldridethe waves of your day; and in the course of realizing the Chinese Dream, fulfill
your youthful dreams, and write a vivid chapter in your tireless endeavors toservethe interests of the people. A just cause should be pursued for the common good. Rooted ina landofmore than 9.6 million square kilometers, nourished by a nation’s culture of morethan 5,000 years, and backed by the invincible force of more than 1.3 billionpeople, we have an infinitely vast stage of our era, a historical heritage of unmatcheddepth, and incomparable resolve that enable us to forge ahead on the roadofsocialism with Chinese characteristics. We, the entire Party and the Chinese people of all ethnic groups, shouldrallyclosely around the Party Central Committee, and hold high the banner of socialismwith Chinese characteristics. We should keep on working with great determinationto accomplish the three historic tasks of advancing modernization, realizingChina’s reunification, and preserving world peace and promoting commondevelopment; we should secure a decisive victory in finishing the buildingof amoderately prosperous society in all respects, strive for the great successofsocialism with Chinese characteristics for a new era, realize the Chinese Dreamof
65
national rejuvenation, and see that our people realize their aspirations for abetterlife.